In practical survival analysis, the situation of no event for a patient can arise even after a long period of waiting time, which means a portion of the population may never experience the event of interest. Under this circumstance, one remedy is to adopt a mixture cure Cox model to analyze the survival data. However, if there clearly exhibits an acceleration (or deceleration) factor among their survival times, then an accelerated failure time (AFT) model will be preferred, leading to a mixture cure AFT model. In this paper, we consider a penalized likelihood method to estimate the mixture cure semiparametric AFT models, where the unknown baseline hazard is approximated using Gaussian basis functions. We allow partly interval-censored survival data which can include event times and left-, right-, and interval-censoring times. The penalty function helps to achieve a smooth estimate of the baseline hazard function. We will also provide asymptotic properties to the estimates so that inferences can be made on regression parameters and hazard-related quantities. Simulation studies are conducted to evaluate the model performance, which includes a comparative study with an existing method from the smcure R package. The results show that our proposed penalized likelihood method has acceptable performance in general and produces less bias when faced with the identifiability issue compared to smcure. To illustrate the application of our method, a real case study involving melanoma recurrence is conducted and reported. Our model is implemented in our R package aftQnp which is available from https://github.com/Isabellee4555/aftQnP.

Merkel cell carcinoma (MMC) is a rare cutaneous neuroendocrine cancer that has the potential to metastasize. However, brain metastasis is infrequent in this type of cancer. We presented a case of a 55-year-old female patient with MCC who had a skin lesion on her right thigh. The cancer had spread to the brain and caused the development of splenic nodules. The patient also experienced intractable headaches and right-sided body weakness, which mimicked the symptoms seen in stroke cases. This case highlights the unusual clinical features and emphasizes the need for further investigation and understanding of the behavior of MCC, particularly in relation to metastasis patterns and associated symptoms.

Different types of neuroendocrine cancer, including medullary thyroid cancer (MTC) and thyroid C-cell hyperplasia, are part of multiple endocrine neoplasia type 2 (MEN2). A proto-oncogene mutation of the rearranged during transfection (<i>RET</i>) gene changes the way that receptor tyrosine kinases work. Multiple endocrine neoplasia, a pathological condition, involves these kinases. When the <i>RET</i> protooncogene changes, it can cause endocrine adenomas and hyperplasia to happen at the same time or one after the other. Pheochromocytoma, medullary thyroid carcinoma, and hyperparathyroidism, alone or in combination, are present in MEN2A patients. Some patients may also have skin lichen amyloidosis or Hirschsprung's disease. Patients with MEN2A often present with MTC. MTC is aggressive and has the worst prognosis, as most patients exhibit lymph node metastasis. MTC is one of the important causes of death in patients with MEN2A. RET mutation analysis aids in identifying MEN2A symptoms and monitoring levels of calcium, thyroid hormones, calcitonin, normetanephrine, fractionated metanephrines, and parathyroid hormone. The earlier diagnosis of MTC significantly improves survival and prompts better management of MEN2A. In this editorial, we will discuss the significance of molecular diagnostic approaches in detecting <i>RET</i> oncogene mutations in MEN2A.

This study was designed to investigate the toxic effects of benzo (a) pyrene (BaP) in the lungs. Mice were repeatedly treated orally with BaP (50 mg/kg body weight, twice a week for four weeks) to induce a tumour. After 4 months of BaP administration, tumours were visible beneath the skin. The histopathological section of the lungs shows congestion of pulmonary blood vessels, alveolar hyperplasia, and concurrent epithelial hyperplasia with infiltrates of inflammatory cells also seen. Thereafter, a single-cell suspension of lung tissues was stained with fluorescently conjugated antibodies for the demarcation of alveolar epithelial (anti-mouse CD74 and podoplanin) and macrophage (F4/80 and CD11b) cells and measured by flow cytometry. The expression of antioxidant genes was assessed by qRT-PCR. The number of alveolar epithelial cells 1 (AEC1) increased, but the number of alveolar epithelial cells 2 (AEC2) and transitional alveolar epithelial cells (TAEC) was significantly decreased in tumour-bearing mice. The proportion of CD11b<sup>+</sup> alveolar macrophages (AM) and interstitial macrophages (IM) was increased, but the proportion of F4/80<sup>+</sup> AM cells was reduced. The BaP administration significantly increased the ROS production in alveolar cells. The relative expression levels of antioxidant genes (SOD1, catalase, GPX1, and HIF-1α) were increased, but NRF2 expression was decreased in BaP-treated alveolar cells. The expression of anti-inflammatory (NF-κB) was also significantly increased. In conclusion, BaP exposure induced an inflammatory response, altered alveolar epithelial cell and macrophage diversity, and increased antioxidant responses in the lungs.

Accurate diagnosis of cancer of unknown primary (CUP) poses a significant daily challenge for pathologists, necessitating reliable immunohistochemical (IHC) markers. SATB2 is a transcription factor primarily expressed in colorectal neoplasms. This study investigates the IHC expression of SATB2 in malignant melanomas (MM). Using tissue microarrays (TMAs) from Aalborg University Hospital, Denmark, comprising 56 primary and 12 metastatic MMs, we evaluated SATB2 expression through H-scores. We found that 48% of MM cases expressed SATB2, predominantly with weak to moderate staining intensity. Although no significant difference was observed between primary and metastatic MMs, a higher median H-score was noted in metastatic lesions. The results highlight the potential diagnostic pitfall of SATB2 expression in MM and underline the need for careful interpretation.

Lower limb oedema is a common condition in clinical practice, frequently affecting the distal lower limbs. Whereas benign causes such as prolonged sitting or standing are typical, oedema can also indicate serious systemic diseases such as cardiac failure, liver disease, or renal impairment. Identifying the cause is crucial to prevent irreversible skin and tissue changes. This clinical review aims to increase the knowledge of advanced clinical practitioners (ACPs) and generalist practitioners, including practice and community nurses, by providing an overview of how to approach patients with lower limb oedema, encompassing history-taking, examinations, investigations, and management plans. The main focus is on lymphoedema, which can be primary or secondary. Primary lymphoedema results from genetic abnormalities, while secondary lymphoedema arises from acquired defects due to factors such as obesity, infections, neoplasms, and trauma. Effective management includes addressing the underlying cause, ensuring proper skin care, recommending appropriate exercises, and the use of compression garments. Referral to a lymphoedema specialist is recommended for patient education on managing and treating the condition when required. Additionally, the article discusses the importance of regular skin inspections, minor injury management, environmental considerations, and the critical role of compression garments in lymphoedema management. This comprehensive approach aims to enhance patient outcomes and provide a thorough strategy for ACPs and generalist practitioners.

Early detection and treatment of skin cancer are important for patient recovery and survival. Dermoscopy images can help clinicians for timely identification of cancer, but manual diagnosis is time-consuming, costly, and prone to human error. To conduct this, an innovative deep learning-based approach has been proposed for automatic melanoma detection. The proposed method involves preprocessing dermoscopy images to remove artifacts, enhance contrast, and cancel noise, followed by feeding them into an optimized Convolutional Neural Network (CNN). The CNN is trained using an innovative metaheuristic called the Improved Chameleon Swarm Algorithm (CSA) to optimize its performance. The approach has been validated using the SIIM-ISIC Melanoma dataset and the results have been confirmed through rigorous evaluation metrics. Simulation results demonstrate the efficacy of the proposed method in accurately diagnosing melanoma from dermoscopy images by highlighting its potential as a valuable tool for clinicians in early cancer detection.

This article reported four cases of sebaceous gland carcinoma of the eyelid with other tumors. Among them, three cases were co-occurred with other ocular tumors, two cases with visceral malignancies, and one case with chronic lymphocytic leukemia/small lymphocytic lymphoma. Immunohistochemistry and/or whole-exome sequencing confirmed that the two cases with visceral malignancies did not meet the criteria for Muir-Torre syndrome. Additionally, whole-exome sequencing was performed on two cases of sebaceous gland carcinoma of the eyelid, both revealing mutations in the ZNF750 gene. Surgical interventions included excision of the eyelid tumors in three cases and enucleation of orbital tissues and eye removal in one case. Follow-up results showed no recurrence in two cases with eyelid tumors and one case with orbital invasion, while one patient died due to peritoneal metastasis from ovarian cancer.

<b>Objective:</b> To investigate the significance of the preferentially expressed antigen in melanoma (PRAME) in the differential diagnosis of the conjunctival malignant melanoma and pigmented nevus. <b>Methods:</b> Specimens from 86 patients with conjunctival malignant melanoma (42 males and 44 females, aged 18 to 84 years) and 86 patients with conjunctival pigmented nevus (47 males and 39 females, aged 1 to 82 years) were collected at Zhongshan Ophthalmic Center, Sun Yat-sen University from January 2017 to July 2024. Immunohistology was performed to detect the PRAME expression. The difference of PRAME expression in the two kinds of conjunctival melanocyte hyperplasia lesions and the correlation of PRAME expression with clinical stages of the conjunctival malignant melanoma (T1 to T4) were analyzed. <b>Results:</b> Most patients with malignant melanoma had a positive PRAME expression (89.53%, 77/86), while only 1 patient with pigmented nevus showed a positive PRAME expression (1.16%, 1/86). The positive expression rate of the PRAME in conjunctival malignant melanoma tissues was significantly higher than that in conjunctival pigmented nevi (<i>P</i><0.05). The PRAME had a sensitivity and specificity of 89.53% and 98.84%, respectively. The expression of the PRAME among patients with conjunctival malignant melanoma in different age groups (>50, 30 to 50, <30) was significantly different (<i>P</i><0.05). However, the PRAME expression had no difference in different clinical stages of the conjunctival malignant melanoma (<i>P</i>>0.05). <b>Conclusions:</b> The PRAME has significance in discriminating the conjunctival malignant melanoma and pigmented nevus. It is a useful biomarker in the diagnosis of conjunctival malignant melanoma.

Reports on neoplastic processes in snakes are sparse regardless of their location, origin or behavior. Here, we describe the occurrence of multifocal cutaneous neoplastic processes consistent with hemangioma and hemangioendothelioma, with a differential diagnosis of angiomatosis, in a colony of native Brazilian rainbow boas (Epicrates cenchria) which also included animals affected by boid inclusion body disease (BIBD). Thirteen snakes were affected; seven of these had been introduced from other Brazilian sites years earlier, the others had been bred in house but were not offspring of knowingly affected animals. The breeding regime allowed contact between all female and male animals over the years. The cutaneous lesions were first observed over eight years ago, with additional cases detected during the three following years, but no new cases in the last five years. Two affected animals were subjected to a post mortem examination and were found to suffer from peliosis hepatis as one of the additional pathological changes. BIBD was confirmed in five of the eight examined animals, by histology, immunohistology for reptarenavirus nucleoprotein, and multiplex RT-PCR targeting the reptarenavirus S segment. Reptarenavirus infection was also detected in cells in the cutaneous neoplastic processes. PCRs for Bartonella henselae and B. quintana as well as bacterial DNA in general, performed on a pool of six skin lesions, yielded negative results, ruling out ongoing bacterial infection, like bacillary angiomatosis in humans, of the lesions. The results hint towards an association of reptarenavirus infection and BIBD with neoplastic processes which is worth further investigations.

This study presents a novel approach to skin toxicity assessment in preclinical radiotherapy trials through an advanced imaging setup and deep learning. Skin reactions, commonly associated with undesirable side effects in radiotherapy, were meticulously evaluated in 160 mice across four studies. A comprehensive dataset containing 7542 images was derived from proton/electron trials with matched manual scoring of the acute toxicity on the right hind leg, which was the target area irradiated in the trials. This dataset was the foundation for the subsequent model training. The two-step deep learning framework incorporated an object detection model for hind leg detection and a classification model for toxicity classification. An observer study involving five experts and the deep learning model, was conducted to analyze the retrospective capabilities and inter-observer variations. The results revealed that the hind leg object detection model exhibited a robust performance, achieving an accuracy of almost 99%. Subsequently, the classification model demonstrated an overall accuracy of about 85%, revealing nuanced challenges in specific toxicity grades. The observer study highlighted high inter-observer agreement and showcased the model's superiority in accuracy and misclassification distance. In conclusion, this study signifies an advancement in objective and reproducible skin toxicity assessment. The imaging and deep learning system not only allows for retrospective toxicity scoring, but also presents a potential for minimizing inter-observer variation and evaluation times, addressing critical gaps in manual scoring methodologies. Future recommendations include refining the system through an expanded training dataset, paving the way for its deployment in preclinical research and radiotherapy trials.

Collagens are the foundational component of diverse tissues, including skin, bone, cartilage, and basement membranes, and are the most abundant protein class in animals. The fibrillar collagens are large, complex, multidomain proteins, all containing the characteristic triple helix motif. The most prevalent collagens are heterotrimeric, meaning that cells express at least two distinctive procollagen polypeptides that must assemble into specific heterotrimer compositions. The molecular mechanisms ensuring correct heterotrimeric assemblies are poorly understood - even for the most common collagen, type-I. The longstanding paradigm is that assembly is controlled entirely by the ~30 kDa globular C-propeptide (C-Pro) domain. Still, this dominating model for procollagen assembly has left many questions unanswered. Here, we show that the C-Pro paradigm is incomplete. In addition to the critical role of the C-Pro domain in templating assembly, we find that the amino acid sequence near the C terminus of procollagen's triple-helical domain plays an essential role in defining procollagen assembly outcomes. These sequences near the C terminus of the triple-helical domain encode conformationally stabilizing features that ensure only desirable C-Pro-mediated trimeric templates are committed to irreversible triple-helix folding. Incorrect C-Pro trimer assemblies avoid commitment to triple-helix formation thanks to destabilizing features in the amino acid sequences of their triple helix. Incorrect C-Pro assemblies are consequently able to dissociate and search for new binding partners. These findings provide a distinctive perspective on the mechanism of procollagen assembly, revealing the molecular basis by which incorrect homotrimer assemblies are avoided and setting the stage for a deeper understanding of the biogenesis of this ubiquitous protein.

Onchocerca volvulus causes blindness, onchocerciasis, skin infections and devastating neurological diseases such as nodding syndrome. New treatments are needed because the currently used drug, ivermectin, is contraindicated in pregnant women and those co-infected with Loa loa. The Seattle Structural Genomics Center for Infectious Disease (SSGCID) produced, crystallized and determined the apo structure of N-terminally hexahistidine-tagged O. volvulus macrophage migration inhibitory factor-1 (His-OvMIF-1). OvMIF-1 is a possible drug target. His-OvMIF-1 has a unique jellyfish-like structure with a prototypical macrophage migration inhibitory factor (MIF) trimer as the `head' and a unique C-terminal `tail'. Deleting the N-terminal tag reveals an OvMIF-1 structure with a larger cavity than that observed in human MIF that can be targeted for drug repurposing and discovery. Removal of the tag will be necessary to determine the actual biological oligomer of OvMIF-1 because size-exclusion chomatographic analysis of His-OvMIF-1 suggests a monomer, while PISA analysis suggests a hexamer stabilized by the unique C-terminal tails.

Molecular pathology, such as high-throughput genomic and proteomic profiling, identifies precise disease targets from biopsies but require tissue dissociation, losing valuable histologic and spatial context. Emerging spatial multi-omic technologies now enable multiplexed visualization of genomic, proteomic, and epigenomic targets within a single tissue slice, eliminating the need for labeling multiple adjacent slices. Although early work focused on RNA (spatial transcriptomics), spatial technologies can now concurrently capture DNA, genome accessibility, histone modifications, and proteins with spatially-resolved single-cell resolution. This review outlines the principles, advantages, limitations, and potential for spatial technologies to advance dermatologic research. By jointly profiling multiple molecular channels, spatial multiomics enables novel studies of copy number variations, clonal heterogeneity, and enhancer dysregulation, replete with spatial context, illuminating the skin's complex heterogeneity.

Atopic dermatitis is highly heterogeneous with respect to pathogenesis, clinical manifestations, and treatment response. There is evidence that ancestry and skin type each contribute to this heterogeneity, indicating the need to improve understanding of disease mechanisms in diverse populations. Methods to integrate multiomics studies have been well-described, but this review focuses on the importance and the strategies needed to integrate data across different ancestral groups, focusing, because of data availability, on Asian and European populations. Skin scientists and clinicians will each benefit from an understanding of how the multiple complimentary layers of omics data may inform future clinical management, from insight into disease pathogenesis and treatment targets.

Dab2 is an endocytic adaptor protein involved in various physiological processes and signaling pathways. Dab2 is deregulated in various cancers; however, its role in skin squamous cell carcinoma ( SCC) has not been elucidated yet. In the present study, we used the DMBA/TPA induced murine skin carcinogenesis model to examine the role of Dab2 in skin tumour progression. We generated tamoxifen inducible Dab2 conditional knockout system for our study. Loss of Dab2 led to delayed papilloma initiation and reduced papilloma burden. Delayed papilloma initiation was due to reduce proliferative potential of the papillomas due to Dab2 loss. Furthermore, while the WT papillomas progressed to SCC, the papillomas formed in Dab2 cKO mice failed to undergo malignant conversion to SCC. Dab2 cKO tumours showed reduced expression of K8, a marker for aggressive tumour. Moreover, Dab2 ckO tumours failed to undergo EMT as shown by reduced expression of Vimentin and Twist1. Dab2 cKO tumours also showed reduced expression of Sox2, a stem cell marker. Furthermore, qPCR analysis showed upregulation of Dab2 expression in the human skin cancer cell lines as compared to normal human skin keratinocytes. In patients, TCGA data analysis of skin cancer melanoma (SKCM) showed a trend where high levels of Dab2 correlated with poor overall survival. The present study shows that Dab2 promotes tumour progression in skin SCC.

The intricate nature of the tumor microenvironment (TME) results in the inefficient delivery of anticancer drugs within tumor tissues, significantly compromising the therapeutic effect of cancer treatment. To address this issue, transdermal drug delivery microneedles (MNs) with high mechanical strength have emerged. Such MNs penetrate the skin barrier, enabling efficient drug delivery to tumor tissues. This approach enhances drug bioavailability, while also mitigating concerns such as liver and kidney toxicity associated with intravenous and oral drug administration. Notably, stimulus responsive MNs designed for drug delivery have the capacity to respond to various biological signals and pathological changes. This adaptability enables them to exert therapeutic effects within the TME, exploiting biochemical variations and tailoring treatment strategies to suit tumor characteristics. The present review surveys recent advancements in responsive MN systems. This comprehensive analysis serves as a valuable reference for the prospective application of smart MN drug delivery systems in cancer therapy.

Skin cancer is the most common cancer worldwide. Early diagnosis is crucial for improving patient survival and morbidity. Artificial intelligence (AI)-assisted smartphone applications (apps) for skin cancer potentially offer accessible, early risk assessment of suspicious skin lesions. However, the integration of novel technologies into dermatology pathways raises ethical concerns. Although ethical principles for AI governance are well known, how these principles should be applied to real-life AI apps readily available for public use is less well understood.

is missing (Short communication).

Uveal melanoma (UM) is a rare aggressive intraocular tumour that spreads most commonly to the liver in tumours with loss of one copy of chromosome 3 (HR-M3); current treatments for metastatic disease remain largely ineffective. Pre-clinical research is increasingly using three-dimensional models that better recapitulate the tumour microenvironment (TME). One aspect of the TME is the acellular extracellular matrix (ECM) that influences cell proliferation, migration and response to therapy. Although commercial matrices are used in culture, the composition and biochemical properties may not be representative of the tumour ECM in vivo. This study identifies UM metastatic risk specific ECM proteins by developing methodology for decellularisation of low- and high- metastatic risk tissue samples (LR-D3 vs. HR-M3). Proteomic analysis revealed a matrisome signature of 34 core ECM and ECM-associated proteins upregulated in HR-M3 UM. Combining additional UM secretome and whole cell iTRAQ proteomic datasets revealed enriched GO and KEGG pathways including 'regulating ECM binding' and 'PI3K/Akt signalling'. Structural analyses of decellularised matrices revealed microarchitecture of differing fibre density and expression differences in collagen 4, collagen 6A1 and nidogen 1, between metastatic risk groups. This approach is a powerful tool for the generation of ECM matrices relevant to high metastatic risk UM.

A saree is a garment worn by women in the Indian subcontinent. It is usually wrapped around the body and secured over an ankle-length skirt (a petticoat). The petticoat is usually tied very tightly around the waist with a cord. The tight cord of the petticoat often leads to dermatoses related to chronic friction and maceration, resulting in dermatitis and depigmentation. In rare cases, chronic friction may lead to the development of squamous cell carcinoma. In the literature, these skin lesions, including malignant transformation, have been described as 'saree cancers', but it is the tightness of the cord tied around the waist that results in chronic inflammation that may result in malignant transformation. We report two cases of squamous cell carcinoma in women associated with tight petticoat cord ties-'petticoat' cancer.

HPV infection and the type of host microbiota play a role in the formation of HNCs. In contrast to other forms of OSCC, where the relationship between HPV and the cancer is less obvious, HPV-HNSCC is a particular type of oropharyngeal cancer. HPV has infected a stratified squamous epithelium, which includes the throat, mouth, anogenital tract, respiratory tract, and skin on the hands and feet. HPV DNA was found in high amounts in the saliva and gargle samples of patients with HPV-related HNSCC. It has been discovered that the specificity of oral mRNA (HPV) and HPV DNA identification varies from 23% to 82% in the identification of OPSCCs. The higher rate of HPV transmission through vaginal-oral compared to penile-oral sexual activity may be the reason for the difference in HPV-positive HNSCC patients between males and females. The researchers postulate that HPV-inactive tumours signify an advanced stage of HPV-positive HNSCC, which explains why there are racial disparities in gene expression that correspond to different disease progressions in Black and White patients. The increase of CD8+ T cells in the cancer microenvironment, linked to P16 activation, extends life expectancy in OSCC. tumour markers methylation caused by HPV and suggested using them as possible HNC biomarkers. Fusobacterium levels are much higher in patients with OSCC, while Actinobacteria phylum and Firmicutes are significantly lower. It also serves as a biomarker for notable variations found in Firmicutes, Actinobacteria, Fusobacteriales, Fusobacteriia, Fusobacterium, and Fusobacteriaceae. Therefore, based on this we evidence, we could investigate the role of oral microbiota as a maker for the HPV associated HNSCC.

In the current study we fabricated potent materials by incorporating therapeutic elements into calcium phosphates (CPs) to combat cancer. This involved synthesizing manganese (Mn)- and lithium (Li)-doped CPs and loading them into electrospun nanofibers (NFs) composed of chitosan (CS) and polyethylene oxide (PEO). The characterized CPs exhibited excellent properties, including a particle size of 47-75 nm, surface charge of -(30-56) mV, and specific surface area of 75-266 m<sup>2</sup>/g. The electrochemical analysis revealed that Mn and Mn/Li-doped CPs are promising for generating oxygen free radicals and H<sub>2</sub>O<sub>2</sub>, crucial for cancer therapy. Biological evaluation showcased the outstanding performance of the developed materials. MTT assay revealed a cytotoxic effect of nano-constructs on melanoma A375 cell line without adverse effects on normal L929 cells over 72 h. Annexin V/PI apoptosis assay indicated substantial apoptosis rates in A375 cells treated with PC-20 % (62.55 ± 4.59 %). The obtained data of qPCR analysis of pro-apoptotic and anti-apoptotic genes (P53, Bax, Bcl-2) in A375 cells treated with different CP nanoparticles (NPs) showed a significant increase in P53 and Bax gene expression, indicating high levels of A375 cell apoptosis. Additionally, the samples containing Mn ion exhibited high reactive oxygen species (ROS) generation. In conclusion, the fabricated NFs scaffolds hold promising potential for cancer therapy.

Management of skin cancer comprises a substantial proportion of general practitioner (GP) workload in Australia. Flap and graft procedures below the knee have an increased risk of infection. Antibiotic resistance is a threat to global health, and any decision about antibiotic prophylaxis must balance adverse outcomes of antibiotic use with patient morbidity. This study will investigate the effectiveness of two interventions to prevent surgical site infection (SSI) after below-knee surgery: (1) 450 mg of clindamycin preoperatively and postoperatively; and (2) preoperative chlorhexidine wash and nasal mupirocin.

To explore the ultrasonic image characteristics of palatine tonsils in healthy children and the factors affecting image quality.

Long non-coding RNAs (lncRNAs) have received growing attention due to their diverse regulatory roles in cancer, including in melanoma, an aggressive type of skin cancer. The plasticity and phenotypic adaptability of melanoma cells are crucial factors contributing to therapeutic resistance. The identification of molecules playing key roles in melanoma cell plasticity could unravel novel and more effective therapeutic targets. This review presents current concepts of melanoma cell plasticity, illustrating its fluidity and dismissing the outdated notion of epithelial-mesenchymal-like transition as a simplistic binary process. Emphasis is placed on the pivotal role of lncRNAs in orchestrating cell plasticity, employing various mechanisms recently elucidated and unveiling their potential as promising targets for novel therapeutic strategies. Insights into the molecular mechanisms coordinated by lncRNAs in melanoma pave the way for the development of RNA-based therapies, holding great promise for enhancing treatment outcomes and offering a glimpse into a more effective approach to melanoma treatment.

Histiocytoses constitute a group of heterogeneous disorders characterized by involvement of variable organs by neoplastic macrophage or dendritic cells. They may affect both adults and children with a predilection to the skin, bone, lungs, lymph nodes, and CNS. The coexistence of different types of histiocytoses in the same patient is an extremely rare phenomenon. We describe a very rare case of co-occurring pulmonary Langerhans cell histiocytosis with multiple cutaneous reticulohistiocytomas with a common BRAF-V600E mutation as the driver genetic event in both the lung and skin lesions. The presence of a common BRAF-V600E mutation provides evidence of their clonal relation and contributes to our understanding in the pathogenesis of multiple, co-occurring histiocytic proliferations.

Optimal management of breast cancer-related lymphoedema (BCRL), a common and debilitating complication of surgery and radiotherapy, depends on early detection, personalised risk assessment and proactive intervention. For instance, a recent review advises healthcare professionals to reframe the narrative about the daily-living skin trauma risks away from 'what to avoid' to 'what to do'. Another review recommends daily, or nearly daily, exercise at home to reduce lymphoedema severity. However, several questions await full answers. There is, for instance, no consensus regarding the most appropriate surgical technique for preventing BCRL. This feature summarises some recent papers updating healthcare professionals about BCRL.

Clinical misdiagnosis between cutaneous squamous cell carcinoma (cSCC) and basal cell carcinoma (BCC) affects treatment plans. We report a tissue sampling approach with molecular biopsy using electroporation. This method, coined electroporation-based biopsy (e-biopsy), enables nondestructive nonthermal permeabilization of cells in the skin for vacuum-assisted extraction of biomolecules. We used e-biopsy for ex vivo proteome extraction from 3 locations per patient in 21 cSCC, 20 BCC, and 7 actinic keratosis human skin samples. Using liquid chromatography with tandem mass spectrometry, we identified 5966 proteins observed with nonzero intensity in at least 1 sample. The intrapatient Pearson correlation of 0.888 ± 0.065 for patients with BCC, 0.858 ± 0.077 for patients with cSCC, and 0.876 ± 0.116 for those with solar actinic keratosis indicates high consistency of the e-biopsy sampling. The mass spectra presented significantly different proteome profiles for cSCC, BCC, and solar actinic keratosis, with several hundreds of proteins differentially expressed. Notably, our study showed that proteomes sampled with e-biopsy from cSCC and BCC lesions are different and that proteins of <i>CRNN</i>, <i>SULT1E1</i>, and <i>ITPK1</i> genes are significantly overexpressed in BCC in comparison with those in cSCC. Our results provide evidence that the e-biopsy approach could potentially be used as a tool to support cutaneous lesions classification with molecular pathology.

Cancer cells effectively evade immune surveillance, not only through the well-known PD-1/PD-L1 pathway but also <i>via</i> alternative mechanisms that impair patient response to immune checkpoint inhibitors. We present a novel co-culture model that pairs a reporter T-cell line with different melanoma cell lines that have varying immune evasion characteristics. We developed a scalable high-throughput lentiviral arrayed CRISPR interference (CRISPRi) screening protocol to conduct gene perturbations in both T-cells and melanoma cells, enabling the identification of genes that modulate tumor immune evasion. Our study functionally validates the co-culture model system and demonstrates the performance of the CRISPRi-screening protocol by modulating the expression of known regulators of tumor immunity. Together, our work provides a robust framework for future research aimed at systematically exploring mechanisms of tumor immune evasion.

Public health and clinical medicine should identify and characterize modifiable risk factors for skin cancer in order to facilitate primary prevention. In existing literature, the impact of occupational exposure on skin cancer, including malignant melanoma and non-melanoma skin cancers, has been extensively studied. This review summarizes the available epidemiological evidence on the significance of occupational risk factors and occupations associated with a higher risk in skin cancer. The results of this review suggest that there is sufficient epidemiological evidence to support the relationship between the increased risk of non-melanoma skin cancers and occupational exposure to solar radiation, ultraviolet radiation, ionizing radiation, arsenic and its compounds, and mineral oils. Occupational exposure to pesticides and polychlorinated biphenyls appears to provide sufficient epidemiological evidence for melanoma, and a higher risk of melanoma has been reported among workers in petroleum refining and firefighters. This comprehensive analysis will establish a foundation for subsequent investigations and developing targeted interventions of focused preventive measures against skin cancer among the working population.

Cutaneous T cell lymphomas (CTCLs), with mycosis fungoides (MF) and Sézary syndrome (SS) as the classic types, are the commonest group of primary cutaneous lymphomas. The diverse clinical manifestation and non-specific histologic findings of early lesions in CTCLs render diagnosis challenging. Treatment modalities also vary and include topical and oral medications, chemotherapy, phototherapy, and radiation therapies. Local dermatological, hemato-oncologic and radiotherapeutical experts in Taiwan convened meetings in 2023 to review and discuss the latest evidence and updates regarding diagnosis and management of CTCLs. A consensus was developed with the aim to raise awareness and understanding, provide practical guidance for early diagnosis and appropriate management, and ultimately optimize care to maximize benefits of patients.

The greatest risk factor for skin cancer is exposure to ultraviolet (UV) rays of the sun. Among the three types of solar radiation (UVA, UVB, UVC), UVB rays are most commonly associated with skin cancer. UVB exposure promotes the formation of cyclobutane pyrimidine dimers (CPDs) in the DNA of cells in the epidermal skin layers, which can lead to mutations as DNA repair machinery attempts to repair the damage. These mutations can lead directly to skin carcinogenesis. Previous studies in animal and in human ex vivo skin models have shown that topical application of acyclothymidine dinucleosides protects DNA from UV-induced damage by preventing the formation of CPDs and helps initiate repair through the activation of DNA repair enzymes. Here we review the biological evidence leading to the development and formulation of ProteXidineTM (Topix Pharmaceuticals, Inc., Amityville, NY), as a UV protective agent for topical human application. We also provide clinical data pertaining to four ProteXidineTM formulations (test materials 1-4) tested for their abilities to reduce CPDs in an ex vivo human skin tissue model. J Drugs Dermatol. 2024;23(11):953-956. doi:10.36849/JDD.8420.

Skin cancer most commonly affects fair-skinned individuals1; however, it can appear in individuals of all skin tones. Photoprotective behaviors such as applying sunscreen should be practiced by all individuals regardless of skin tone. Herein, the authors discuss the cost and protection of popular sunscreens targeted towards patients with darker skin or skin of color (SOC), and suggest important considerations providers should take into account when advising about sunscreen recommendations for patients with skin of color. J Drugs Dermatol. 2024;23(11):e181-e182. doi:10.36849/JDD.8710e.

Long noncoding (Lnc) RNAs are novel regulators in melanoma. Lnc nuclear enriched autosomal transcript 1 (NEAT1) was reportedly upregulated in melanoma; however, the functional roles and mechanisms of Lnc NEAT1 need further investigation. Therefore, we used quantitative real-time PCR to determine the mRNA levels of Lnc NEAT1, miR-152-3p, and cyclin-dependent protein kinase 6 (CDK6). The protein level of CDK6 was determined by Western blot. Cell counting kit 8 and colony formation assays were used to assess cell proliferation. Cell migration was measured by wound healing and Transwell assays. Direct binding of the indicated molecules was verified by an RNA-binding protein immunoprecipitation assay and a dual luciferase reporter assay. The results revealed that Lnc NEAT1 and CDK6 were elevated, while miR-152-3p was downregulated in melanoma. Furthermore, Lnc NEAT1 was positively correlated with CDK6 expression and negatively correlated with miR-152-3p level. Furthermore, Lnc NEAT1 facilitated proliferation, migration, and invasion of melanoma cells. The underlying mechanism is that Lnc NEAT1 serves as a sponge for miR-152-3p to suppress the inhibitory effect of miR-152-3p on CDK6. Furthermore, the miR-152-3p/ CDK6 axis was implicated in the progression of melanoma accelerated by Lnc NEAT1. Taken together, Lnc NEAT1 may promote melanoma development by serving as an endogenous sponge of miR-152-3p, increasing CDK6 expression, and identifying a new target for the treatment of melanoma.

SUMMARYBlood cultures (BCs) are one of the critical tests used to detect bloodstream infections. BC results are not 100% specific. Interpretation of BC results is often complicated by detecting microbial contamination rather than true infection. False positives due to blood culture contamination (BCC) vary from 1% to as high as >10% of all BC results. False-positive BC results may result in patients undergoing unnecessary antimicrobial treatments, increased healthcare costs, and delay in detecting the true cause of infection or other non-infectious illness. Previous guidelines from the Clinical and Laboratory Standards Institute, College of American Pathologists, and others, based on expert opinion and surveys, promoted a limit of ≤3% as acceptable for BCC rates. However, the data supporting such recommendations are controversial. A previous systematic review of BCC examined three practices for reducing BCC rates (venipuncture, phlebotomy teams, and pre-packaged kits). Subsequently, numerous studies on different practices including using diversion devices, disinfectants, and education/training to lower BCC have been published. The goal of the current guideline is to identify beneficial intervention strategies to reduce BCC rates, including devices, practices, and education/training by providers in collaboration with the laboratory. We performed a systematic review of the literature between 2017 and 2022 using numerous databases. Of the 11,319 unique records identified, 311 articles were sought for full-text review, of which 177 were reviewed; 126 of the full-text articles were excluded based on pre-defined inclusion and exclusion criteria. Data were extracted from a total of 49 articles included in the final analysis. An evidenced-based committee's expert panel reviewed all the references as mentioned in Data Collection and determined if the articles met the inclusion criteria. Data from extractions were captured within an extraction template in the US Agency for Healthcare Research and Quality's Systematic Review Data Repository (https://srdr.ahrq.gov/). BCC rates were captured as the number of events (contaminated samples) per arm (standard practice versus improvement practice). Modified versions of the National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute Study Quality Assessment Tools were used for risk of bias assessment (https://www.nhlbi.nih.gov/health-topics/study-quality-assessment-tools). We used Grading of Recommendations, Assessment, Development and Evaluations to assess strength of evidence. There are several interventions that resulted in significant reduction in BCC rates: chlorhexidine as a disinfectant for skin preparation, using a diversion device prior to drawing BCs, using sterile technique practices, using a phlebotomy team to obtain BCs, and education/training programs. While there were no substantial differences between methods of decreasing BCC, our results indicate that the method of implementation can determine the success or failure of the intervention. Our evidence-based systematic review and meta-analysis support several interventions to effectively reduce BCC by approximately 40%-60%. However, devices alone without an education/training component and buy-in from key stakeholders to implement various interventions would not be as effective in reducing BCC rates.

Primary cutaneous CD4-positive small or medium T-cell lymphoproliferative disorder (PCSM-LPD) is characterized by a slow-growing and asymptomatic solitary plaque or tumor, usually involving the head, neck, or upper extremities. The diagnosis is established based on clinical presentation, histopathological features including pleomorphic morphology and CD4-positive immunophenotype of neoplastic T lymphocytes, and molecular analysis showing clonally rearranged T-cell receptor (TCR) genes. Plaques typical of mycosis fungoides are essentially absent. Treatment options include surgical excision, radiotherapy, and topical or intralesional steroids. Because the disease is indolent, aggressive diagnostic tests and systemic treatments are not recommended. We present a case of PCSM-LPD in a previously healthy young man that spontaneously regressed after a biopsy.

Angiosarcoma (AS) is a rare and aggressive soft tissue sarcoma originating from endothelial cells, with cutaneous manifestations often seen in the head and neck region. Despite its rarity, AS poses significant diagnostic challenges due to its variable presentation and ability to mimic other dermatological conditions. We report the case of an 87-year-old female that presented with a 4-month history of an asymptomatic nodule on her neck, which rapidly progressed into an indurated plaque spreading to her face, chest, and scalp. Initially misdiagnosed as cellulitis and dermatitis, the lesion was unresponsive to antibiotics and steroids. Imaging showed extensive infiltration in the neck, precluding surgical resection. This case underscores the diagnostic difficulty of AS, which can be mistaken for benign skin conditions. Despite a multidisciplinary approach, the prognosis for AS remains poor, with a 5-year survival rate of approximately 35%. Treatment options include surgery, radiation, chemotherapy, and immunotherapy tailored to the patient's condition and tumor characteristics.

We report a rare manifestation of cutaneous borreliosis in a patient with pre-existing malignant lymphoproliferative disease, in particular chronic lymphocytic B cell leukemia (B-CLL). The patient's cutaneous lesions were initially diagnosed histologically as leukemia cutis. Distribution pattern of the skin lesions were in typical localizations for borrelial lymphocytoma. <i>Borrelia burgdorferi</i> sensu stricto was isolated and cultured from two sites (ear, mammilla). Antibiotic therapy improved the cutaneous lesions and the general condition of the patient. However, a second round of antibiotic therapy was required to resolve the lesions. At eleven years of follow-up the patient's skin was clear and she still had a stable condition of B-CLL without chemotherapy. In conclusion, the patient suffered from Lyme borreliosis (<i>Borrelia</i> lymphocytoma) and the cutaneous symptoms were aggravated by the underlying condition of chronic B-CLL condition.

<b>Background:</b> The nose is the most critical aesthetic element of the face and even the smallest loss of substance can create a deformity of concern. The forehead flap has been the workhorse for nasal reconstruction for centuries but requires multiple surgical steps and leads to prominent donor-site scarring. The nasolabial flap allows a single-step reconstruction with a donor-site scar concealed in the nasolabial crease but is conventionally designated for small defects involving the ala. <b>Methods:</b> The authors analysed all surgical records of patients undergone nasal reconstruction by nasolabial flap between May 2005 and December 2021 by the Plastic Surgery Unit of a major regional hospital in Lombardy. Defects were classified according to Burget's subunit principle and the 3-component approach. Reconstruction features and finesses were reported and analysed. <b>Results:</b> In the 16-year period under analysis, 378 patients with nasal defects of various aetiologies received nose reconstruction by nasolabial flap. All nasal subunits were involved; 20 patients had multisubunit defects. In all the cases the reconstruction with nasolabial flap, alone or combined with other solutions, was intended to be one-stage. <b>Conclusions:</b> The authors present several tips and tricks about preoperative planning and design, choice of the pedicle, flap harvesting and sculpting with preservation/restoration of grooves and convexities, conjoining multiple flaps, downsizing extensive defects by a rhinoplasty-like framework reduction. With a careful planning and refined technique, the range of application of the nasolabial flap can include defects involving any nasal subunit and larger and/or multisubunit defects.

Oral squamous cell carcinoma is a perpetual challenge for current clinicians and oral pathologists. In this case report, we present an unusual case of oral squamous cell carcinoma involving the left buccal mucosa with extensive bone exposure and skin perforation. It showed features of ulceration, necrosis, and maggot infestation. On histological examination, the malignant epithelial cells in the dense fibrous connective tissue stroma were keratinized, highly pleomorphic, had a high nucleo-cytoplasmic ratio, and were organized in sheets, cords, and nests. Decalcified tissue sections revealed the presence of necrotic bone. Immunohistochemistry indicated diffuse PanCK (cytokeratin) positivity confirming the epithelial origin of the malignant tumor cells. A final diagnosis of poorly differentiated squamous cell carcinoma (Bryne score 13/16) with chronic osteomyelitis and skin involvement was confirmed. Palliative care with supportive therapy was recommended. Hence, this case report emphasizes how critical it is to receive an early diagnosis and treatment to stop the disease progression, prevent the host's immune suppression, and improve the overall quality of life of the patient.

Background and objectives Melanoma, a major skin cancer, has seen varying trends in incidence, prevalence, stage at diagnosis, and survival. This study examines these trends using the United States Cancer Statistics (USCS) database, covering the period from 1999 to 2021. Methods We extracted data from the USCS database, which integrates the National Cancer Institute's (NCI) Surveillance, Epidemiology, and End Results (SEER) program and the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention's (CDC) National Program of Cancer Registries (NPCR). The analysis included new melanoma cases, prevalence estimates (using a 20-year limited duration), stage at diagnosis, and five-year relative survival rates. Incidence rates were adjusted for age using the 2000 United States standard population. Descriptive and trend analyses were performed using IBM SPSS Statistics software, version 29 (IBM Corp., Armonk, NY).  Results The analysis of melanoma trends from 1999 to 2021 reveals a significant increase in the annual age-adjusted incidence rate, rising from 15.1 per 100,000 (95% CI: 14.9- 15.2) in 1999 to 23.0 per 100,000 (95% CI: 22.8- 23.1) in 2021. This upward trend is consistent across gender and racial/ethnic groups. The prevalence of melanoma over a 20-year period was 0.279 (95% CI: 0.276-0.282), with males showing a higher prevalence (0.302, 95% CI: 0.298-0.306) compared to females (0.256, 95% CI: 0.252-0.260). The distribution of melanoma stage at diagnosis indicated that 77% of cases were localized (95% CI: 76.5-77.5%), 9.5% regional (95% CI: 9.2-9.8%), 4.7% distant (95% CI: 4.4-5.0%), and 8.8% unstaged (95% CI: 8.5-9.1%). Survival analysis showed a five-year relative survival rate of 99.4% (95% CI: 99.2-99.6%) for localized melanoma and 35.6% (95% CI: 33.7-37.6%) for distant melanoma, highlighting significant disparities in survival based on stage at diagnosis. Conclusions The study highlights a rising incidence of melanoma and emphasizes the critical role of early detection in improving survival outcomes. The findings underscore the effectiveness of early diagnosis and the necessity for ongoing efforts to improve melanoma outcomes across diverse populations.

Sebaceoma is an infrequently diagnosed benign neoplasm with sebaceous differentiation. This tumor usually presents in areas rich in sebaceous glands, such as the face, scalp, or trunk. The periocular tissues are an exceptionally uncommon site for sebaceoma, making sebaceoma of the eyelid an extremely rare entity. To our knowledge, only five cases of sebaceoma of the eyelid have been reported, with only one of these five originating in a Meibomian gland. Due to its rarity and the wide spectrum of skin lesions, sebaceoma is considered a diagnostically challenging lesion. When the diagnosis is uncertain, a biopsy followed by histopathological analysis should be performed to carefully differentiate sebaceoma from other eyelid tumors. Histopathologically, sebaceoma displays a wide range of patterns, from those seen in sebaceous adenoma to features that can be difficult to distinguish from sebaceous gland carcinoma. We report the case of a 64-year-old Caucasian male presenting with sebaceoma of a Meibomian gland of the left lower eyelid margin. The diagnosis of sebaceoma was made based on a routine histopathological examination.

Frederic Mohs was an American physician and surgeon who revolutionized the treatment of skin cancer through the development of the Mohs micrographic surgery technique. Born in 1910, Mohs devised this innovative procedure while still a medical student, seeking a more effective method for removing skin cancers with minimal damage to surrounding healthy tissue. The technique, which involves the precise removal of cancerous tissue, layer by layer, while examining each under a microscope, allows for the highest possible cure rates and the preservation of as much healthy tissue as possible. Mohs' method has since become the gold standard in dermatologic surgery for certain types of skin cancer, significantly improving patient outcomes. His contributions have had a lasting impact on both the medical field and the lives of countless patients.

Frederic Mohs was an American physician and surgeon who revolutionized the treatment of skin cancer through the development of the Mohs micrographic surgery technique. Born in 1910, Mohs devised this innovative procedure while still a medical student, seeking a more effective method for removing skin cancers with minimal damage to surrounding healthy tissue. The technique, which involves the precise removal of cancerous tissue, layer by layer, while examining each under a microscope, allows for the highest possible cure rates and the preservation of as much healthy tissue as possible. Mohs' method has since become the gold standard in dermatologic surgery for certain types of skin cancer, significantly improving patient outcomes. His contributions have had a lasting impact on both the medical field and the lives of countless patients.

Blastic plasmacytoid dendritic cell neoplasm (BPDCN) is a rare and aggressive hematodermic neoplasm usually involving the skin. In this retrospective case series, 10 cases of BPDCN were identified, 90% of which had skin involvement and exhibited predominantly violaceous nodules and/or bruise-like plaques. Skin lesions showed diffuse or nodular dermal-based infiltrates of intermediate sized blasts with a grenz zone. Tumor immunophenotyping was CD4(+), CD56(+), CD123(+) and CD303(+). The most frequently mutated genes according to targeted next-generation sequencing were TET2 (3/7) and NRAS (2/7). Multiagent chemotherapy (CT) was administered as first-line therapy, and a total of 5 patients underwent allogenic hematopoietic stem cell transplantation (allo-HSCT). Better outcomes were observed in younger patients and those treated with acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL)-like CT followed by allo-HSCT. This study shows the clinical range of cutaneous lesions of BPDCN. Despite the absence of a gold standard therapy, patients treated with myeloablative intensive regimens and allo-HSCT seem to have a more favorable prognosis.



Cancers are part of the group of diseases that carry a high mortality rate. According to World Health Organization in 2020 reported 10 million deaths due to cancers. Treatment of oncological patients is focused on chemotherapeutic agents, radiology, or immunology. Surgical interventions are also an important aspect of treatment. The above methods contribute to saving the patients' health and lives. However, cancer treatment possesses side effects. Commonly observed complications are hair loss, mucositis, nausea, diarrhea, or various skin damage. To improve the quality of medical care for cancer patients, new methods of reducing side effects are sought. Strategies include the use of stem cells (SCs). Due to unlimited proliferation potential and differentiating abilities, SCs are used in the treatment of many disease entities, including wounds. One of the most used types of stem cells supposed adipose-derived mesenchymal stromal cells (AD-MSCs). Clinical trials confirm the application of AD-MSCs in wound healing. Furthermore, in vivo studies considered the utilization of AD-MSCs in radiation injury. The use of stem cells in cancer treatment still involves many questions, such as the impact of treatment on SCs' condition and oncological safety. However, development in regenerative medicine research may contribute to the use of stem cells in personalized medicine, customized for the patient. This could represent a breakthrough step in preventing the side effects of cancer therapies, including chronic wounds.

Melanoma is one of the most aggressive types of skin cancer, and the need for advanced platforms to study this disease and to develop new treatments is rising. 3D bioprinted tumor models are emerging as advanced tools to tackle these needs, with the design of adequate bioinks being a fundamental step to address this challenging process. Thus, this work explores the synergy between two biobased nanofibers, nanofibrillated cellulose (NFC) and lysozyme nanofibrils (LNFs), to create pectin nanocomposite hydrogel bioinks for the 3D bioprinting of A375 melanoma cell-laden living constructs. The incorporation of LNFs (5, 10 or 15 wt%) on a Pectin-NFC suspension originates inks with enhanced rheological properties (shear viscosity and yield point) and proper shear-thinning behavior. The crosslinked hydrogels mimic the stiffness of melanoma, being stable under physiological and cell-culture conditions, and non-cytotoxic towards A375 melanoma cells. P-NFC-LNFs (10 %) reveals good printability (Pr = 0.89) and printing accuracy (51 ± 2 %), and when loaded with A375 cells (3 × 10<sup>6</sup> cells mL<sup>-1</sup>) the bioink originates 3D-constructs with high cell viability (92 ± 1 %) after 14 days. The potential of the constructs as in vitro models is corroborated by a drug-screening test with doxorubicin, where cells within the model displayed high sensitivity to the drug.

Photodynamic therapy (PDT) and photothermal therapy (PTT) have demonstrated great potential to diagnose and combat localized cancers. As a matter of fact, these techniques are less invasive and have fewer side effects than traditional cancer treatments like surgery, chemotherapy or radiotherapy. This review summarizes the clinical progress in the theranostics (diagnosis and treatment) of various types of regional cancers using these two light stimuli techniques, PDT and PTT. Therefore, clinical advances in cancer diagnosis based on PDT are detailed, including fluorescence-guided PDT for intraoperative cancer detection, optical coherence tomography (OCT)-guided PDT for early cancer detection, and imaging by magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) or computed tomography (CT) assisted through PDT/PTT. Moreover, clinical studies of breast, prostate, skin, gynecologic, head, neck and other varieties of cancer have been addressed to compare the main conditions of these treatments. This work also discussed the principal advantages and drawbacks of PDT and PTT in tumor targeting and cancer therapy. Finally, the usage of nanoparticles as photosensitizers (PSs) and photothermal agents (PAs) have been analyzed. In this manner, the authors have compiled relevant updated studies so that researchers interested in these areas can access it speedily.

Malignant melanoma is a difficult-to-treat skin cancer with increasing incidence worldwide. Although type-I interferon (IFN) is no longer part of guidelines, several melanoma patients are treated with type-I interferon (IFN) at some point of the disease, potentially affecting its genetic progression. We run genome-wide copy number variation (CNV) analysis on previously type-I IFN-treated (n = 17) and control (n = 11) visceral metastases of melanoma patients. Results were completed with data from the TCGA and MM500 databases. We identified metastasis- and brain metastasis-specific gene signatures mostly affected by CN gains. Some cases were genetically resistant to IFN showing characteristic gene alterations (e.g. ABCA4 or ZEB2 gain and alterations of DNA repair genes). Analysis of a previously identified type-I IFN resistance gene set indicates that only a proportion of these genes was exclusive for the IFN-treated metastases reflecting a possible selective genomic pressure of endogenous IFNs during progression. Our data suggest that previous type-I IFN treatment and/or endogenous IFN production by immune response affect genomic progression of melanoma which may have clinical relevance, potentially influence immune checkpoint regulation in the tumor microenvironment.

Sinonasal mucosal melanoma (SNMM) is a rare aggressive tumor often diagnosed at advanced stage. SNMM is associated with a greater than 50% rate of recurrence and a disease-specific 5 year survival rate of less than 25%. Sinonasal anatomy may contribute to difficulty in early detection; SNMM is usually asymptomatic until bulky and polypoidal. Presenting clinical symptoms are often nonspecific. The histopathologic features of SNMM are quite variable and immunohistochemical analysis is usually necessary for diagnosis. Mucosal melanomas lack ultraviolet signature, have low somatic mutational burden, and are reported to have more genomic instability manifested as structural variants, deletions, and amplifications.

5-Fluorouracil (5-FU) is a commonly used chemotherapy drug that effectively destroys cancer cells. Despite its widespread use and efficacy, it also presents considerable challenges, particularly with adverse effects on rapidly dividing normal cells, such as keratinocytes. These detrimental effects are attributed to inflammatory, oxidative, and apoptotic potentials, leading to severe skin disorders. Due to the lack of specific remedies for 5-FU-induced dermatological side effects, conventional treatments are applied instead, which provide limited relief and have drawbacks. This study investigated the impact of acetyl tributyl citrate (ATBC) in 5-FU-treated human keratinocytes. The findings indicated that ATBC substantially reduced inflammation caused by 5-FU, as demonstrated by nuclear translocation of nuclear factor kappa B and expression of its downstream genes, including tumor necrosis factor, interleukin 1 beta (IL1B), and IL6. ATBC also markedly decreased oxidative stress, indicated by reactive oxygen species levels and the antioxidant gene expression such as superoxide dismutase 1 (SOD1), SOD2, and heme oxygenase 1 in 5-FU-treated cells. Furthermore, ATBC attenuated 5-FU-induced apoptosis, as determined by lactate dehydrogenase release and Annexin V/propidium iodide flow cytometry, with the potential involvement of interferon-related genes. Following this, protein kinase C delta was predicted as a possible molecular target of ATBC. These findings propose ATBC as a therapeutic agent for managing the cutaneous side effects associated with 5-FU treatment.

Epoxytiglianes are a novel class of diterpene esters. The prototype epoxytigliane, EBC-46 (tigilanol tiglate), is a potent anti-cancer agent in clinical development for local treatment of a range of human and animal tumors. EBC-46 also consistently promotes wound re-epithelialization at the treatment sites, mediated via activation of classical protein kinase C (PKC) isoforms. We have previously shown that epoxytiglianes stimulate proliferative and wound repopulation responses in immortalized human skin keratinocytes (HaCaTs) in vitro, abrogated by pan-PKC inhibitor, bisindolylmaleimide-1. In this study, we further investigate the specific PKC isoforms responsible for inducing such wound healing responses, following HaCaT treatment with 1.51 nM-15.1 µM EBC-46 or analogue, EBC-211. Classical PKC inhibition by GӦ6976 (1 μM), significantly attenuated epoxytigliane induced, HaCaT proliferation and wound repopulation at all epoxytigliane concentrations. PKC-βI/-βII isoform inhibition by enzastaurin (1 μM), significantly inhibited HaCaT proliferation and wound repopulation responses induced by both epoxytiglianes, especially at 1.51-151 nM. PKC-α inhibitor, Ro 31-8220 mesylate (10 nM), exerted lesser inhibitory effects on HaCaT responses. Epoxytigliane changes in key keratin (KRT17) and cell cycle (cyclin B1, CDKN1A) protein levels were partly attenuated by GӦ6976 and enzastaurin. GӦ6976 also inhibited increases in matrix metalloproteinase (MMP-1, MMP-7, MMP-10) activities. Phospho-PKC (p-PKC) studies confirmed that epoxytiglianes transiently activated classical PKC isoforms (p-PKCα, p-PKC-βI/-βII, p-PKCγ) in a dose- and time-dependent manner. By identifying how epoxytiglianes stimulate classical PKCs to facilitate keratinocyte healing responses and re-epithelialization, these findings support further epoxytigliane development as topical therapeutics for clinical situations involving impaired re-epithelialization, such as non-healing wounds in skin.

Epoxytiglianes are a novel class of diterpene esters. The prototype epoxytigliane, EBC-46 (tigilanol tiglate), is a potent anti-cancer agent in clinical development for local treatment of a range of human and animal tumors. EBC-46 also consistently promotes wound re-epithelialization at the treatment sites, mediated via activation of classical protein kinase C (PKC) isoforms. We have previously shown that epoxytiglianes stimulate proliferative and wound repopulation responses in immortalized human skin keratinocytes (HaCaTs) in vitro, abrogated by pan-PKC inhibitor, bisindolylmaleimide-1. In this study, we further investigate the specific PKC isoforms responsible for inducing such wound healing responses, following HaCaT treatment with 1.51 nM-15.1 µM EBC-46 or analogue, EBC-211. Classical PKC inhibition by GӦ6976 (1 μM), significantly attenuated epoxytigliane induced, HaCaT proliferation and wound repopulation at all epoxytigliane concentrations. PKC-βI/-βII isoform inhibition by enzastaurin (1 μM), significantly inhibited HaCaT proliferation and wound repopulation responses induced by both epoxytiglianes, especially at 1.51-151 nM. PKC-α inhibitor, Ro 31-8220 mesylate (10 nM), exerted lesser inhibitory effects on HaCaT responses. Epoxytigliane changes in key keratin (KRT17) and cell cycle (cyclin B1, CDKN1A) protein levels were partly attenuated by GӦ6976 and enzastaurin. GӦ6976 also inhibited increases in matrix metalloproteinase (MMP-1, MMP-7, MMP-10) activities. Phospho-PKC (p-PKC) studies confirmed that epoxytiglianes transiently activated classical PKC isoforms (p-PKCα, p-PKC-βI/-βII, p-PKCγ) in a dose- and time-dependent manner. By identifying how epoxytiglianes stimulate classical PKCs to facilitate keratinocyte healing responses and re-epithelialization, these findings support further epoxytigliane development as topical therapeutics for clinical situations involving impaired re-epithelialization, such as non-healing wounds in skin.

Immune checkpoint inhibitor (ICI) therapies effectively treat a broadening spectrum of cancer entities but induce various immune-related side effects (irAEs). Recent reports suggest a correlation between ICI-induced systemic inflammation and thromboembolic events as well as an increased effectiveness by coadministration of anticoagulants. With cancer patients having a higher risk of thrombotic events per se, it is crucial to dissect and characterize the mechanisms that cause pro-coagulative effects induced by systemic tumor therapies and their potential interplay with anti-tumor response. A total of 31 patients with advanced skin cancer treated with either ICIs (n = 24) or BRAF/MEK inhibitors (n = 7) were longitudinally assessed for blood and coagulation parameters before as well as 7, 20 and 40 days after initiation of systemic tumor therapy. Changes were analyzed and compared between both groups. In addition, the influence of coagulation parameters on progression-free, recurrence-free and overall survival was investigated. The ICI cohort presented significantly increased factor VIII activity after one week of therapy (p 0.0225); while, protein S activity was reduced during the whole observation period. Additionally, von Willebrand factor activity and tissue factor concentrations increased under immunotherapy. Similar changes occurred under BRAF/MEK inhibitor therapy (BRAF/MEKi). Increased baseline levels of von Willebrand factor antigen and factor VIII:C before the start of ICI therapy correlated with a significantly higher risk of recurrence for patients receiving adjuvant immunotherapy. The findings suggest the induction of a pro-coagulant state under ICI and BRAF/MEKi and a role of coagulation parameters in the efficacy of ICI therapies.

Patients with metastatic brain melanomas (MBM) experience shorter-lasting survival than patients with extracranial metastases, and this is associated with a higher fraction of dysfunctional CD8 T cells. The goal of this study was to understand the underlying cause of T cell dysfunction in MBM. To accomplish this, we compared murine B16 melanomas implanted intracranially (IC) or subcutaneously (SC). CD8 T cell activation was not altered, but representation in IC tumors was lower. Transferred activated or naïve CD8 T cells accumulated in similar numbers in both tumors, suggesting that the vasculature does not differentially impair T cell presence. Surprisingly, we found no evidence for T cell activation in draining lymph nodes of SC or IC tumor-bearing mice, consistent with the fact that dendritic cells (DC) that had acquired tumor antigen showed an immature phenotype. Instead, T cell activation occurred within both tumors, where the majority of tumor antigen<sup>+</sup> myeloid cells were found. While, the numbers of intratumoral DC were comparable, those in IC tumors acquired less tumor antigen, and were alternatively matured based on upregulation of MHCII without upregulation of CD86. Additionally, in IC tumors, the largest population of tumor antigen<sup>+</sup> myeloid cells were microglia. However, their presence did not influence either antigen acquisition or the phenotype of other myeloid cell populations. Overall, our data suggest that diminished representation of CD8 T cells in IC tumors is a consequence of alternatively matured DC and/or microglia that induce distinctly activated T cells, which ultimately fail to continue to accumulate inside the tumor.

Melanoma is the most dangerous form of skin cancer. Hence, a better understanding of molecular mechanisms in melanoma pathogenesis is urgently needed, which provides a new insight into the therapy of melanoma. DTL gene is screened out in melanoma pathogenesis by integrated bioinformatics analysis, and its expression is validated in the tissue and cell samples of melanoma. Forced DTL expression facilitates the proliferation, invasion, migration and EMT of melanoma cells, while DTL knockdown suppresses the biological behavior of melanoma cells. In addition, DTL promotes the malignancy of melanoma in vivo. Mechanistically, BUB1 is the crucial downstream target of DTL. Reduced DTL expression suppresses BUB1 expression, while enhanced DTL expression induces BUB1 upregulation. Rescue experiments showed that growing and migrating of melanoma cells induced by DTL are partially impaired by BUB1 inhibition. In addition, the expression of phosphorylated ERK (p-ERK) and the downstream transcription factor E2F1 are reduced when DTL expression is blocked. Meanwhile, BUB1 levels are decreased when the expression of p-ERK or E2F1 is repressed. Notably, the growth and migration of melanoma cells by inhibition of ERK and knockdown of E2F1 was rescued by overexpressing BUB1. DTL gene may be a prognosis marker and represent a unique potential target for melanoma patients. DTL supports the biologically malignant activity of melanoma cells via the ERK/E2F1/BUB1 axis.

Surgery is the first line of treatment in gingival cancers of the mandible, and bone resection is necessary in the majority of cases. In the less extensive surgical option, marginal mandibulectomy (MM), the mandibular base is preserved. In contrast, in a segmental mandibulectomy (SM) the mandible is divided and the continuity is not preserved. If MM can be performed with comparable oncological results to SM, it is the preferred method. The aim of the present study was to identify preoperative predictors for local recurrence (LR), to support the selection of candidates for MM. Outcome measures were local recurrence free survival (LRFS) and disease specific survival (DSS). 67 patients treated with MM between 2008 and 2021 were included. Cox regression analyses of LR with hazard ratios and adjustments for postoperative radiotherapy, pathological T-stage (pT) and soft tissue margins were performed. 5-years LRFS was 63% (95% CI 46.9-75.5) and DSS 80.6% (95% CI 64.7-89.9). In conclusion we found that edentulous patients, more advanced pT-stage and positive soft tissue margins had increased risk for LR. Future studies of the correlation between cT and pT would be important to provide more robust preoperative support in the selection between MM and SM.

Mitochondrial DNA (mtDNA) mutations are frequent in cancer, yet their precise role in cancer progression remains debated. To functionally evaluate the impact of mtDNA variants on tumor growth and metastasis, we developed an enhanced cytoplasmic hybrid (cybrid) generation protocol and established isogenic human melanoma cybrid lines with wild-type mtDNA or pathogenic mtDNA mutations with partial or complete loss of mitochondrial oxidative function. Cybrids with homoplasmic levels of pathogenic mtDNA reliably established tumors despite dysfunctional oxidative phosphorylation. However, these mtDNA variants disrupted spontaneous metastasis from primary tumors and reduced the abundance of circulating tumor cells. Migration and invasion of tumor cells were reduced, indicating that entry into circulation is a bottleneck for metastasis amid mtDNA dysfunction. Pathogenic mtDNA did not inhibit organ colonization following intravenous injection. In heteroplasmic cybrid tumors, single-cell analyses revealed selection against pathogenic mtDNA during melanoma growth. Collectively, these findings experimentally demonstrate that functional mtDNA is favored during melanoma growth and supports metastatic entry into the blood.

Small non-coding RNAs (e.g. siRNA, miRNA) are involved in a variety of melanocyte-associated skin conditions and act as drivers for alterations in gene expression within melanocytes. These molecular changes can potentially affect the cellular stability of melanocytes and promote their oncogenic transformation. Thus, small RNAs can be considered as therapeutic targets for these conditions, however, their topical delivery to the melanocytes through the epidermal barrier is challenging. We synthesized and extensively evaluated ultradeformable cationic liposome (UCLs) carriers complexed with synthetic microRNAs (miR211-5p; UCL-211) for transdermal delivery to melanocytes. UCL-211 complexes were characterized for their physicochemical properties, encapsulation efficiency, and deformability, which revealed a significant advantage over conventional liposomal carriers. Increased expression of miR211-5p stabilizes melanocytic nevi and keeps them in growth-arrested state. We did a comprehensive assessment of cellular delivery, and biological activity of the miR211-5p carried by UCL-211 <i>in vitro</i> and their permeation through the epidermis of intact skin using <i>ex vivo</i> human skin tissue explants. We also demonstrated, <i>in vivo</i>, that topical delivery of miR211-5p by UCL-211 stabilized BRAFV600E+ nevi melanocytes in a benign nevi state.

The text discusses the role of general practitioners (GPs) in the prevention and early diagnosis of melanoma, a type of skin cancer. It highlights the need for GPs to be able to recognize suspicious skin lesions and refer patients to specialist dermatology centers. However, many GPs lack comprehensive training in diagnosing melanoma. The text mentions that various training courses have been conducted for GPs, but their impact on clinical practice has been limited. The MelaMEd Programme is an e-learning course developed by the Italian Melanoma Intergroup (IMI). The programme aims to provide GPs with comprehensive knowledge of melanoma prevention, diagnosis, and treatment. It includes an e-learning section, and a dedicated platform called MelaMEd platform, which offers a multimedia atlas of melanoma. The objective of the study is to evaluate the impact of the MelaMEd programme on GPs' diagnostic accuracy, knowledge of melanoma, and management of suspicious lesions. The methodology involves administering pre-training and post-training questionnaires to participants, assessing their diagnostic skills and evaluating the training course's effectiveness. The study aims to demonstrate the effectiveness of the MelaMEd programme in improving GPs' ability to recognize and manage melanoma. It also seeks to identify areas for improvement and recommend interventions to enhance diagnostic accuracy. The results will be analyzed statistically using descriptive, univariate, and multivariate analysed methods.

This is a 74-year-old female, initially presenting with malignant pleural effusion, and evaluation revealed programmed cell death ligand 1 (PDL1)-positive stage IV high grade serous ovarian cancer. Following initiation of standard chemotherapy agents, carboplatin and paclitaxel, the patient developed a diffuse, itchy rash over her abdomen, back, and bilateral upper and lower extremities. Biopsy of the rash revealed a diffuse non-resectable cutaneous squamous cell skin carcinoma (cSCC) in situ. Consequently, a PD1-inhibitor was added to her neoadjuvant chemotherapy regimen, which resulted in complete response to both metastatic ovarian and diffuse cSCC in situ at time of surgery.

Pressure ulcers (PU) arise from prolonged pressure on the skin and underlying tissue due to pathological changes in blood flow. They usually develop in people who are immobilized due to certain medical conditions. The incidence of chronic diseases such as cancer, cardio-vascular diseases are on the ascendency. These conditions, if not managed adequately could render patients incapacitated, leaving them bedridden for long periods. The chances of these individuals developing PU are very high. Currently in Ghana, information on medications for the management of various stages of PU are not readily available. Prevention of PU has been the goal of nursing care, however, in the case where preventive care is not successful, there should be effective and efficient medications for the management of the PU. <i>Method:</i> The study design was descriptive cross-sectional. To get a good representation of the availability of PU medications in the entire metropolis, a stratified sampling approach was used. The 10 districts within the metropolitan area were taken as the strata. Towns within each district were identified, and mapped out. From each town, community pharmacies were randomly selected. It was ensured that pharmacies selected were well spread out (located distance apart). Researchers had to collect data from three or more pharmacies from each town. Data was collected using a structured questionnaire from pharmacists working in these pharmacies. By this approach, the availability of PU medications across the entire metropolitan area was revealed. <i>Results:</i> 241 pharmacies were visited, out of which 192 respondents took part in the study. Approximately 83.3% of these pharmacies had pressure ulcer medications. Majority of the medications available in the community pharmacies visited were hydrophobic based dressings., while hydrophilic based dressings were less than 1%. Implying that patients having PU that produce scopious exudate will have challenges acquiring the necessary dressings to manage the wounds. The dressings which were mostly available, had other indications apart from Pressure Ulcer. Patronage of the available PU medications in the Accra metropolis was average. <i>Conclusion:</i> There are pressure ulcer medications available in pharmacies within the Accra metropolis of Ghana. Although the medications are averagely patronized, there are not many types available. Hydrophilic based dressings were not readily available.

Limited information exists about the types of immune cells present in Kaposi sarcoma (KS) lesions, especially in KS in the gastrointestinal tract. Using previously reported RNA-sequencing results from Kaposi sarcoma lesions in skin and gastrointestinal tract with normal matched tissues from the same patients at the same time, we investigated changes in lymphocytes in these tissues. We employed a computational method that determines changes in cell type distributions using KS lesion transcriptome data compared to a reference set of RNA expression patterns of purified immune cells. Since secreted cytokines and chemokines from KSHV-infected cells may influence the microenvironment of Kaposi sarcoma lesions, we performed cytokine profiling of conditioned media from KSHV-infected primary human dermal lymphatic endothelial cells. We also measured how this conditioned media altered the differentiation of macrophages in cell culture assays. These results suggested that factors in conditioned media from KSHV-infected endothelial cells promoted differentiation of a promonocytic cell line to proinflammatory macrophages.

The malignant form of melanoma is one of the deadliest human cancers that accounts for almost all of the skin tumor-related fatalities in its later stages. Achieving an exhaustive understanding of reliable cancer-specific markers and molecular pathways can provide numerous practical techniques and direct the way toward the development of rational curative medicines to increase the lifespan of patients. Immunotherapy has significantly enhanced the treatment of metastatic and late-stage melanoma, resulting in an incredible increase in positive responses to therapy. Despite the increasing occurrence of melanoma, the median survival rate for patients with advanced, inoperable terminal disease has increased from around six months to almost six years. The current knowledge of the tumor microenvironment (TME) and its interaction with the immune system has resulted in the swift growth of innovative immunotherapy treatments. Exosomes are small extracellular vesicles (EVs), ranging from 30 to 150 nm in size, that the majority of cells released them. Exosomes possess natural advantages such as high compatibility with living organisms and low potential for causing immune reactions, making them practical for delivering therapeutic agents like chemotherapy drugs, nucleic acids, and proteins. This review highlights recent advancements in using exosomes as an approach to providing medications for the treatment of melanoma.

In this narrative review, the authors provide a concise overview of current information on the identification and management of unintentional weight loss (UWL) in clinical care settings. Unintended weight loss can occur widely and is often multifactorial. Clinicians should use screening tools to identify those experiencing UWL. Management includes nutrition assessments and diagnosing malnutrition when present. Nutrition counseling by a registered dietitian nutritionist should address the causes and manifestations of UWL. Individualized dietary plans with supplementation and/or nutrition support and medications for appetite stimulation may be considered. The presence of UWL at the end of life should be addressed in line with the patient's care plan. Managing UWL is part of the multidisciplinary care teams' responsibilities.

Hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) rarely metastasizes to the skin. When it occurs, it is often poorly differentiated making the diagnosis challenging. There exists a male predominance, and clinical presentation usually includes papules or nodules resembling pyogenic granulomas or dermal deposits. Histopathology shows malignant dermal cells. Hepatoid features including nests or cords of cells arranged in a trabecular or pseudoglandular pattern, sinusoidal formation, or the presence of bile exist in less than 50% of cases. Limitations exist with immunohistochemical staining, particularly in poorly differentiated neoplasms. Albumin in situ hybridization is more sensitive for detecting poorly differentiated HCC. Immunostaining in conjugation with albumin in situ hybridization enhances the detection of metastatic hepatocellular carcinoma. We report the case of a 74-year-old man with a history of HCC and a stable lung metastasis who presented with painful, growing bumps on his nose for 2 months. Examination revealed multiple, pink to white, shiny dermal-based papules with telangiectasias involving the right nasal tip and naris. Alpha-fetoprotein level was markedly elevated. Computed tomography showed expanding right lower lobe lung nodules. Histopathology of the cutaneous biopsy revealed features of a poorly differentiated basaloid carcinoma. Immunohistochemical staining was diffusely positive for glypican-3, focally positive for arginase-1, and negative for hepatocyte paraffin 1. Albumin in situ hybridization was diffusely positive, clinching the diagnosis of HCC. Metastatic HCC is a rare encounter for dermatopathologists. We aim to increase awareness of its occurrence in patients with advanced HCC and highlight the importance of clinical correlation when faced with poorly differentiated or unusual-looking basaloid neoplasms.

Schwannomas consist of both high-cellularity regions (Antoni A area) and hypocellular regions (Antoni B area) in histopathological findings. Neurofibromas characteristically consist of CD34 positive spindle cells with thin, wavy, nuclei and wavy collagen bands. Previous reports have described segments of schwannomas with neurofibroma features as hybrid tumors, although hybrid tumors were diagnosed based on partial CD34 positivity in many previous reports. On the other hand, the Antoni B area of some schwannomas was reported to be positive for CD34. Therefore, the definition of a hybrid tumor has not been clear. The objective of this study was to determine whether only CD34 positive findings in schwannomas could be used to define a hybrid tumor. In the analysis of our patient with schwannomatosis caused by a novel LZTR1 germline mutation, part of the tumor had CD34 positive hypocellular regions. These regions contained no thin, wavy, nuclei, indicating an Antoni B area. Laser microdissection was used to investigate the genetic background and differences in molecular mechanisms between CD34 positive and CD34 negative regions. All mutations identified in CD34 positive regions were also found in CD34 negative regions. Our data could not clear the genetic background of Antoni B which was CD34 positive area. We then reviewed the pathologies of 66 sporadic schwannomas. Histopathological examinations of all schwannomas revealed the absence of thin, wavy, nuclei and wavy collagen bands, and no hybrid tumors were found in any of the cases. Ten of 66 patients were randomly selected for CD34 immunostaining and positivity was found in all cases. Our data suggest that it is difficult to distinguish schwannomas by staining for CD34 alone, as Antoni B areas can also be positive for CD34. Therefore, CD34 staining alone should not be used to diagnose hybrid tumors in patients with schwannomas.

Invasive membrane protrusions play a central role in a variety of cellular processes. Unlike filopodia, invasive protrusions are mechanically stiff and propelled by branched actin polymerization. However, how branched actin filaments are organized to create finger-like invasive protrusions is unclear. Here, by examining the mammalian fusogenic synapse, where invasive protrusions are generated to promote cell membrane juxtaposition and fusion, we have uncovered the mechanism underlying invasive protrusion formation. We show that two nucleation-promoting factors for the Arp2/3 complex, WAVE and N-WASP, exhibit different localization patterns in the protrusions. Whereas WAVE is closely associated with the plasma membrane at the leading edge of the protrusive structures, N-WASP is enriched with WIP along the actin bundles in the shafts of the protrusions. During protrusion initiation and growth, the Arp2/3 complex nucleates branched actin filaments to generate low-density actin clouds in which the large GTPase dynamin organizes the new branched actin filaments into bundles, followed by actin-bundle stabilization by WIP, the latter functioning as an actin-bundling protein. Disruption of any of these components results in defective protrusions and failed myoblast fusion in cultured cells and mouse embryos. Together, our study has revealed the intricate spatiotemporal coordination between two nucleation-promoting factors and two actin-bundling proteins in building invasive protrusions at the mammalian fusogenic synapse and has general implications in understanding invasive protrusion formation in cellular processes beyond cell-cell fusion.

This document was drafted by interdisciplinary experts informed by the evidence and guided by their extensive lymphedema clinical experience at the 2023 American Cancer Society (ACS) Lymphedema Summit: Forward Momentum: Future Steps in Lymphedema Management hosted by the ACS, Lymphology Association of North America, and the Washington School of Medicine  in St. Louis, Missouri. Consensus statements were derived from a facilitated workshop and multiple follow-up discussions and meetings combining available evidence and clinical expertise. The consensus statements find that the essential components of complete decongestive therapy (CDT) are examination, compression, manual techniques (this may include but is not limited to manual lymph drainage), exercise, skin care, education, and self-management. Adjunctive interventions and alternatives may complement CDT. CDT should be provided by specifically trained healthcare practitioners in lymphedema management, preferably a certified lymphedema therapist. The individual's lymphedema etiology and presentation, comorbidities, and other pertinent clinical information will determine the components of CDT applied and the frequency and duration of care.

Mycosis fungoides (MF) is the most common type of cutaneous T-cell lymphoma in adults. However, it is rare in middle childhood. Such cases usually present with hypopigmented patches that may mimic common childhood dermatoses, thereby causing a delay in the diagnosis. Sezary syndrome is a rare and aggressive leukaemic variant of cutaneous lymphoma. We report a patient in middle childhood who presented with recurring non-specific folliculotropic manifestations. The final diagnosis of MF was arrived at after excluding all other possible dermatoses. Within a few months of skin manifestations, our index child was found to have blood involvement with similar clonal T-lymphoid cells. Such rapid development of Sezary syndrome within months of cutaneous presentation has never been described. There are no established treatment guidelines for the same in paediatric population. The patient underwent a matched sibling allogeneic transplant after a course of topical steroids and skin electron beam therapy.

Since the introduction of immune checkpoint inhibitors (ICIs) targeting PD-1 and CTLA-4 receptors, survival has improved significantly for patients with irresectable and metastatic skin cancer, including cutaneous squamous cell cancer and melanoma. However, systemic administration of these drugs is associated with immune related adverse events (irAEs), which can be severe, irreversible and even fatal. To reduce the risk of irAEs associated with systemic exposure to immunotherapeutic drugs, local administration of low doses could be considered. This systematic review provides an overview of early phase clinical trials with drugs that are currently under investigation for intratumoral administration in patients with melanoma and non-melanoma skin cancer.

Skin cancer, notably melanoma, poses a significant global health burden, with rising incidence and mortality rates. While therapeutic advancements have improved outcomes, metastatic melanoma remains challenging to treat. This study aims to systematically review systemic treatment options for advanced melanoma, focusing on efficacy and safety in the first-line setting. Through a comprehensive search and meta-analysis of randomized controlled trials conducted from 2013 to 2023, 11 studies encompassing 2816 participants were analyzed. Treatment options included BRAF inhibitors (vemurafenib, dabrafenib), MEK inhibitors (trametinib, cobimetinib), and immune checkpoint inhibitors (ipilimumab). Combined therapy with vemurafenib, cobimetinib, and ipilimumab demonstrated superior overall survival (OS) and progression-free survival (PFS) compared to monotherapy, with a significant odds ratio (OR) of 6.95 (95% CI: 4.25-9.64, p < 0.00001) for OS and 2.49 (95% CI: 1.42-3.56, p < 0.00001) for PFS. Additionally, dabrafenib and trametinib combination therapy showed improved outcomes with favorable tolerability, including a significant reduction in adverse event (AE) risk, with an OR of 2.20 (95% CI: 1.72-2.81). Furthermore, our analysis highlighted vemurafenib-associated dermatological toxicities, emphasizing the need for effective management strategies. The study underscores the evolving treatment landscape in melanoma management, with a potential shift towards immune checkpoint inhibitors in the adjuvant setting, particularly for BRAF-mutated disease. However, limitations in meta-analysis methodologies and the need for long-term investigations into treatment implications on survival and quality of life underscore the importance of continued research.

Skin cancer, notably melanoma, poses a significant global health burden, with rising incidence and mortality rates. While therapeutic advancements have improved outcomes, metastatic melanoma remains challenging to treat. This study aims to systematically review systemic treatment options for advanced melanoma, focusing on efficacy and safety in the first-line setting. Through a comprehensive search and meta-analysis of randomized controlled trials conducted from 2013 to 2023, 11 studies encompassing 2816 participants were analyzed. Treatment options included BRAF inhibitors (vemurafenib, dabrafenib), MEK inhibitors (trametinib, cobimetinib), and immune checkpoint inhibitors (ipilimumab). Combined therapy with vemurafenib, cobimetinib, and ipilimumab demonstrated superior overall survival (OS) and progression-free survival (PFS) compared to monotherapy, with a significant odds ratio (OR) of 6.95 (95% CI: 4.25-9.64, p < 0.00001) for OS and 2.49 (95% CI: 1.42-3.56, p < 0.00001) for PFS. Additionally, dabrafenib and trametinib combination therapy showed improved outcomes with favorable tolerability, including a significant reduction in adverse event (AE) risk, with an OR of 2.20 (95% CI: 1.72-2.81). Furthermore, our analysis highlighted vemurafenib-associated dermatological toxicities, emphasizing the need for effective management strategies. The study underscores the evolving treatment landscape in melanoma management, with a potential shift towards immune checkpoint inhibitors in the adjuvant setting, particularly for BRAF-mutated disease. However, limitations in meta-analysis methodologies and the need for long-term investigations into treatment implications on survival and quality of life underscore the importance of continued research.

Skin cancer, notably melanoma, poses a significant global health burden, with rising incidence and mortality rates. While therapeutic advancements have improved outcomes, metastatic melanoma remains challenging to treat. This study aims to systematically review systemic treatment options for advanced melanoma, focusing on efficacy and safety in the first-line setting. Through a comprehensive search and meta-analysis of randomized controlled trials conducted from 2013 to 2023, 11 studies encompassing 2816 participants were analyzed. Treatment options included BRAF inhibitors (vemurafenib, dabrafenib), MEK inhibitors (trametinib, cobimetinib), and immune checkpoint inhibitors (ipilimumab). Combined therapy with vemurafenib, cobimetinib, and ipilimumab demonstrated superior overall survival (OS) and progression-free survival (PFS) compared to monotherapy, with a significant odds ratio (OR) of 6.95 (95% CI: 4.25-9.64, p < 0.00001) for OS and 2.49 (95% CI: 1.42-3.56, p < 0.00001) for PFS. Additionally, dabrafenib and trametinib combination therapy showed improved outcomes with favorable tolerability, including a significant reduction in adverse event (AE) risk, with an OR of 2.20 (95% CI: 1.72-2.81). Furthermore, our analysis highlighted vemurafenib-associated dermatological toxicities, emphasizing the need for effective management strategies. The study underscores the evolving treatment landscape in melanoma management, with a potential shift towards immune checkpoint inhibitors in the adjuvant setting, particularly for BRAF-mutated disease. However, limitations in meta-analysis methodologies and the need for long-term investigations into treatment implications on survival and quality of life underscore the importance of continued research.

Skin diseases are a significant global public health concern, affecting 21-85% of the world's population, particularly those in low- and middle-income countries. Accurate and timely diagnosis is crucial for effective treatment and improved patient outcomes. This study introduces a novel deep-learning multi-model architecture designed for high-precision skin disease diagnosis. The system employs a five-category Xception model to classify skin lesions into five classes: Atopic Dermatitis, Acne and Rosacea, Skin Cancer, Bullous, and Others. Trained on 25,010 images, the model achieved 95% accuracy and an AUROC of 99.4%. To further enhance accuracy, transfer learning was applied, resulting in specialized models for each class, with strong performance across 40 skin conditions. Specifically, the Acne and Rosacea model achieved an accuracy of 90.0%, with a precision of 90.7%, recall of 90.1%, f1-score of 90.2%, and an AUROC of 99.0%. The Skin Cancer model demonstrated 94.0% accuracy, 94.8% precision, 94.2% recall, 94.1% f1-score, and a 99.5% AUROC. The Atopic Dermatitis model reported 91.8% accuracy, 92.2% precision, 91.8% recall, 91.9% f1-score, and a 98.8% AUROC. Finally, the Bullous model showed 90.0% accuracy, 90.6% precision, 90.0% recall, 90.0% f1-score, and a 98.9% AUROC. This approach surpasses previous studies, offering a more comprehensive diagnostic tool for skin diseases. To facilitate result reproducibility, the training and testing codes for the models utilized in this study are accessible via the GitHub repository ( https://github.com/SaraEl-Metwally/A-Multi-Model-Deep-Learning-for-Diagnosing-Skin-Diseases ).

Skin diseases are a significant global public health concern, affecting 21-85% of the world's population, particularly those in low- and middle-income countries. Accurate and timely diagnosis is crucial for effective treatment and improved patient outcomes. This study introduces a novel deep-learning multi-model architecture designed for high-precision skin disease diagnosis. The system employs a five-category Xception model to classify skin lesions into five classes: Atopic Dermatitis, Acne and Rosacea, Skin Cancer, Bullous, and Others. Trained on 25,010 images, the model achieved 95% accuracy and an AUROC of 99.4%. To further enhance accuracy, transfer learning was applied, resulting in specialized models for each class, with strong performance across 40 skin conditions. Specifically, the Acne and Rosacea model achieved an accuracy of 90.0%, with a precision of 90.7%, recall of 90.1%, f1-score of 90.2%, and an AUROC of 99.0%. The Skin Cancer model demonstrated 94.0% accuracy, 94.8% precision, 94.2% recall, 94.1% f1-score, and a 99.5% AUROC. The Atopic Dermatitis model reported 91.8% accuracy, 92.2% precision, 91.8% recall, 91.9% f1-score, and a 98.8% AUROC. Finally, the Bullous model showed 90.0% accuracy, 90.6% precision, 90.0% recall, 90.0% f1-score, and a 98.9% AUROC. This approach surpasses previous studies, offering a more comprehensive diagnostic tool for skin diseases. To facilitate result reproducibility, the training and testing codes for the models utilized in this study are accessible via the GitHub repository ( https://github.com/SaraEl-Metwally/A-Multi-Model-Deep-Learning-for-Diagnosing-Skin-Diseases ).

Skin diseases are a significant global public health concern, affecting 21-85% of the world's population, particularly those in low- and middle-income countries. Accurate and timely diagnosis is crucial for effective treatment and improved patient outcomes. This study introduces a novel deep-learning multi-model architecture designed for high-precision skin disease diagnosis. The system employs a five-category Xception model to classify skin lesions into five classes: Atopic Dermatitis, Acne and Rosacea, Skin Cancer, Bullous, and Others. Trained on 25,010 images, the model achieved 95% accuracy and an AUROC of 99.4%. To further enhance accuracy, transfer learning was applied, resulting in specialized models for each class, with strong performance across 40 skin conditions. Specifically, the Acne and Rosacea model achieved an accuracy of 90.0%, with a precision of 90.7%, recall of 90.1%, f1-score of 90.2%, and an AUROC of 99.0%. The Skin Cancer model demonstrated 94.0% accuracy, 94.8% precision, 94.2% recall, 94.1% f1-score, and a 99.5% AUROC. The Atopic Dermatitis model reported 91.8% accuracy, 92.2% precision, 91.8% recall, 91.9% f1-score, and a 98.8% AUROC. Finally, the Bullous model showed 90.0% accuracy, 90.6% precision, 90.0% recall, 90.0% f1-score, and a 98.9% AUROC. This approach surpasses previous studies, offering a more comprehensive diagnostic tool for skin diseases. To facilitate result reproducibility, the training and testing codes for the models utilized in this study are accessible via the GitHub repository ( https://github.com/SaraEl-Metwally/A-Multi-Model-Deep-Learning-for-Diagnosing-Skin-Diseases ).

Malignant melanoma, a rapidly spreading form of skin cancer, is becoming more prevalent worldwide. While surgery is successful in treating early-stage melanoma, patients with advanced disease have only a 20 % chance of surviving beyond five years. Melanomas with mutations in the NRAS gene are characterized for a more aggressive tumor biology, poorer prognosis and shorter survival. Hence, new therapeutic strategies are needed, especially for this specific group of patients. Novel approaches, such as cancer vaccines, offer promising solutions by stimulating the anti-tumor immune response. Nevertheless, their clinical efficacy is still modest and more effective approaches are required. Herein, we propose the systemic administration of the adenovirus-based cancer vaccine complexed in extracellular vesicles (EVs) with the aim of achieving a targeted therapeutic effect. The vaccine was based on previously tested oncolytic adenovirus Ad5/3-D24-ICOSL-CD40L in combination with melanoma-specific antigens targeting NRAS mutations to enhance the anticancer effect. The antineoplastic properties of the oncolytic vaccine were evaluated in xenograft MUG Mel-2 melanoma BALB/c nude mice. Moreover, to mimic the tumor microenvironment, while investigating at the same time immune cell infiltration and drug penetration, we established a 3D co-culture model based on human NRAS mutated MUG Mel-2 spheroids and PBMCs (HLA matched), which displayed a synergistic effect when treated with the cancer vaccine compared to relative controls. Subsequently, we investigated the systemic delivery of the vaccine in EV formulations in a humanized NSG MUG Mel-2 melanoma mouse model. Our study provides a promising strategy for a tumor-targeted vaccine delivery by EVs, resulting in improved anticancer efficacy and increased infiltration of tumor-infiltrating lymphocytes. This study explores the potential of EVs for the selective delivery of cancer vaccines against malignancies, such as NRAS melanoma. Overall, this research could pave the way for applying autologous EVs as a safe and efficacious tool for targeted cancer therapy.

This work aimed to evaluate the histologic tumor types and patient characteristics of canine and feline neoplasias in Morocco. In a prospective, observational study, 250 tumor samples were collected from veterinary clinics in Morocco. For each case, breed, age, sex, neuter status, and tumor site and histotype were analyzed. Among the 250 tumors, 201 (80.4%) were from dogs and 49 (19.6%) from cats. Most common tumor location in dogs was the reproductive tract (36.8%), followed by skin and soft tissues (27.4%) and mammary gland (14.9%). In cats, most tumors originated from the skin and soft tissues (55.1%), followed by mammary gland (20.4%) and oral cavity (14.3%). Commonest canine histologic tumor types were transmissible venereal tumor (CTVT<sup>1</sup>) (31.8%) and mammary carcinoma (14.4%). Squamous cell carcinoma (34.7%) and mammary carcinoma (20.4%) represented the most frequent feline neoplasms. Median age of dogs and cats at diagnosis was 7 and 10 years, respectively. Gender distribution was even in dogs; in cats, females were overrepresented. Most cats and about half of dogs were mixed-breed. The evaluated canine and feline neoplasias show differences in their tumor types and patient characteristics when compared to populations from other countries, in part based on the high number of CTVT and - possibly solar-induced -feline skin tumors.

Through Jimmy Buffett's unfortunate battle with lymphoma originating from Merkel cell carcinoma and subsequent media coverage of his death, public interest in skin cancer, Merkel cell carcinoma, and the health effects of sunlight exposure increased, as evidenced by our results.

We report the case of a 62-year-old man with metastatic castration-resistant prostate cancer with subcutaneous involvement being treated with 177Lu-prostate-specific membrane antigen (PSMA). Before treatment, he was diagnosed with 2 subcutaneous nodules in the chest wall and soft tissue edema in the pubic and inguinal regions showing PSMA avidity. Biopsy and immunohistochemistry assessment confirmed cutaneous metastases from prostate cancer. He received 3 cycles of 177Lu-PSMA, resulting in a decline in PSA levels and resolution of symptoms. This case underscores the challenging diagnosis of cutaneous metastasis from prostate cancer, especially in atypical presentations. We also reviewed all causes of PSMA-avid lesions in the skin and subcutaneous tissues.

Hydroxytyrosol (HT) is a polyphenol found in the olive plant (<i>Olea europaea</i>) that has garnered attention from the food, feed, supplement, and pharmaceutical industries. HT has evolved from basic separation and extraction to chemical and biocatalytic synthesis. The yield of HT can reach 1.93 g/L/h through chemical synthesis and 7.7 g/L/h through biocatalysis; however, both methods are subject to inherent limitations. Furthermore, the potential health benefits associated with HT have been highlighted, including its ability to act as an antioxidant, reduce inflammation, combat cancer and obesity, and exert antibacterial and antiviral effects. Its neuroprotective effects, skin protection, and wound healing capabilities are also discussed. Given these remarkable biological properties, HT stands out as one of the most extensively investigated natural phenols. This review highlights future methods and pathways for the synthesis of HT, providing insights based on its bioactivity characteristics, health benefits, and potential future applications.

Immune checkpoint inhibitor (ICI) therapy has enabled a paradigm shift in Oncology, with the treatment of metastatic cancer in certain tumor types becoming akin to the treatment of chronic disease. Kidney transplant recipients (KTR) are at increased risk of developing cancer compared to the general population. Historically, KTR were excluded from ICI clinical trials due to concern for allograft rejection and decreased anti-tumor efficacy. While early post-marketing data revealed an allograft rejection risk of 40%-50%, 2 recent small prospective trials have demonstrated lower rates of rejection of 0%-12%, suggesting that maintenance immunosuppression modification prior to ICI start modulates rejection risk. Moreover, objective response rates induced by ICI for the treatment of advanced or metastatic skin cancer, the most common malignancy in KTR, have been comparable to those achieved by immune intact patients. Non-invasive biomarkers may have a role in risk-stratifying patients before starting ICI, and monitoring for rejection, though allograft biopsy is required to confirm diagnosis. This clinically focused review summarizes current knowledge on complications of ICI use in KTR, including their mechanism, risk mitigation strategies, non-invasive biomarker use, approaches to treatment of rejection, and suggestions for future directions in research.

Sweet's syndrome (SS) is a relatively rare dermatological condition typically presenting with erythematous tender plaques, papules, nodules, or pustules accompanied by fever, asymmetric polyarthralgia, and other systemic features. Elevated inflammatory markers and white blood cell counts are also commonly seen in SS. Dense neutrophilic infiltration in the dermis is a cardinal feature of SS. A 52-year-old woman presented with a five-month-long history of fever, easy fatigability, multiple painful skin lesions over her scalp, face, trunk, and limbs, and a history of multiple joint pain for three months. Examination revealed tender, erythematous papules, plaques, and nodules which spread from her scalp to involve almost the entire body. Hematological workup unmasked an overlap between anemia of chronic disease and autoimmune hemolytic anemia. Her inflammatory markers and lactate dehydrogenase (LDH) were also elevated. The anti-nuclear antibody (ANA) test revealed 1:100 titers but the ANA profile failed to point toward a concrete rheumatological cause. After ruling out more common causes of fever with rash, a skin biopsy helped us to diagnose SS conclusively. A diagnosis of SS necessitated a hunt for the cause. Ultrasonography of the abdomen alarmed us to a suspicious cervical mass which was confirmed as a FIGO (International Federation of Gynecology and Obstetrics) grade IIb neoplasia by an MRI of the pelvis. Histopathological examination established a diagnosis of moderately differentiated squamous cell carcinoma. SS was successfully treated with colchicine. Our case is unique in the sense that SS was the first feature of a newly diagnosed case of cervical cancer which is already an exceptionally rare cause of SS. There ought to be a greater awareness regarding both SS and its association with malignancy. It's pertinent that we look out for cancer when more common causes of SS do not fit the clinical picture.

Eruptive melanocytic nevi and multiple keratoacanthomas are rare cutaneous conditions, often linked to drug-related toxicities but rarely reported simultaneously, particularly in cancer patients undergoing BRAF-targeted therapies. We present a case of a 64-year-old male with metastatic colorectal cancer who developed severe pruritus and widespread new skin lesions following treatment with encorafenib, a v-Raf murine sarcoma viral oncogene homolog B (BRAF) inhibitor, and panitumumab, an anti-epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR) monoclonal antibody. The dermatological assessment identified both pigmented and non-pigmented lesions, including benign nevi and keratoacanthomas. Despite close monitoring, larger keratoacanthomas persisted, prompting surgical excision, which confirmed lichenoid keratosis. The Naranjo scale indicated a definite association between encorafenib and cutaneous reactions, with a score of nine. The mitogen-activated protein kinase pathway's role in cutaneous adverse events was explored, suggesting a paradoxical activation mechanism. Discontinuation of encorafenib and panitumumab led to gradual resolution of most lesions, highlighting a possible etiopathogenic link. This study emphasizes the need for thorough dermatologic evaluation and follow-up in patients receiving BRAF inhibitors to optimize management and avoid unnecessary treatment cessation.

Cutaneous melanoma is the most aggressive form of skin cancer, responsible for most skin cancer-related deaths. Recent advances in artificial intelligence, jointly with the availability of public dermoscopy image datasets, have allowed to assist dermatologists in melanoma identification. While image feature extraction holds potential for melanoma detection, it often leads to high-dimensional data. Furthermore, most image datasets present the class imbalance problem, where a few classes have numerous samples, whereas others are under-represented.

Interleukin-33 (IL-33) is a pleiotropic molecule that plays various roles in the body. However, how exogenous IL-33 changes the tumor immune microenvironment remains unclear. Our study revealed that exogenous IL-33 exerts anti-tumor effects and effectively suppresses the progression of subcutaneous melanoma. scRNA-seq analysis revealed that exogenous IL-33 reduced neutrophils accumulation, thereby improving the inhibitory immune environment. Flow cytometry analysis revealed that exogenous IL-33 significantly increased the proportion of eosinophils and group 2 innate lymphoid cells (ILC2s). In addition, we identified genes encoding major histocompatibility complex (MHC) class II molecules in this group of ILC2s, suggesting that ILC2s may play a role in antigen presentation. In Il7r<sup>Cre</sup>Arg1<sup>flox/flox</sup> mice, the decrease of ILC2s led to a reduction in the proportion of eosinophils. Furthermore, we found that exogenous IL-33 effectively promoted the differentiation of ILC2s and their accumulation in tumors, thereby enhancing the anti-tumor immune response. These findings may pave the way for developing new cancer immunotherapies that use IL-33 as an activator to enhance anti-tumor immune responses.

Biopsy-based histology has been the foundation of disease diagnosis and management for over a century. A long-sought goal in dermatology is the development of an imaging modality with sufficient resolution and compositional detail to noninvasively interrogate skin histology in vivo. Here, we describe a system that achieves this goal using cross-sectionally scanned, multimodal microscopy (cross-modal). Cross-modal combines multiphoton and reflectance confocal microscopy into one compact system with coordinated three-axis scanning that preserves optical resolution in cross-section. A custom pinhole-free mechanism employing finite-infinite conjugates further simplifies and stabilizes confocal alignment. Evaluated in participants ages 9-81 and Fitzpatrick skin types (FST) 1-5, cross-modal images revealed histological details analogous to those obtained from traditional biopsied tissue. We observed dermal elastosis in sun-damaged skin, elevated melanin in pigmented skin, basaloid nests in basal cell carcinoma, and elongated rete ridges in seborrheic keratosis, supporting cross-modal's potential to deliver histological insights noninvasively.

Different types of photosensitizers (PSs) have different dynamics and intensities of accumulation, depending on the type of tumor or different areas within the same tumor. This determines the effectiveness of fluorescence diagnostics and photodynamic therapy (PDT). This paper studies the processes of 5-aminolevulinic acid (5-ALA)-induced protoporphyrin IX (PpIX) and chlorin e6 (Ce6) accumulation in the central and border zones of a tumor after combined administration of two PSs into the patient's body. Fluorescence diagnostic methods have shown that sublingual administration of 5-ALA leads to the more intense accumulation of PpIX in a tumor compared to oral administration. Differences have been identified in the dynamics of 5-ALA-induced PpIX and Ce6 accumulation in the central and border zones of the tumor, as well as normal tissues. Ce6 accumulates mainly in the central zone of the tumor while PpIX accumulates in the border zone of the tumor. All patients with combined PDT experienced complete therapeutic pathomorphosis and relapse-free observation.

Lymphoma was diagnosed in two wild tawny frogmouths (Podargus strigoides) presented to the Australian Wildlife Health Centre, Healesville Sanctuary, Victoria. The first case presented with extensive feather loss refractory to treatment. Bacterial and fungal folliculitis and beak and feather disease virus were excluded as primary causes, and the bird was euthanised due to poor response to treatment. Histopathological examination of the skin showed an extensive infiltrate of pleomorphic mononuclear leucocytes, suggestive of cutaneous lymphoma. Immunohistochemistry revealed >95% of these cells were CD3 positive, consistent with T cell lymphoma. The second case presented debilitated and in poor body condition and was euthanised due to poor prognosis. Histopathological examination revealed extensive infiltrates of pleomorphic mononuclear leucocytes in multiple tissues, suggestive of disseminated lymphoma. Immunohistochemistry revealed 70%-80% of these leucocytes were Pax5 positive, consistent with a B cell lymphoma. To the authors' knowledge these cases constitute the first report of malignant neoplasms in members of the Order Caprimulgiformes. Cutaneous lymphoma should be considered as a potential differential diagnosis for severe feather loss in tawny frogmouths and other avian species, when other more common causes have been ruled out. Similarly, disseminated lymphoma is a differential diagnosis worthy of consideration in cases of systemic debilitation in tawny frogmouths.

As prostaglandin E2 (PGE2) and its receptors (EP2) are over-expressed on tumor cells and microenvironment, radiolabeled cyclodextrins targeting such biomolecules are valuable vector candidates in molecular cancer diagnostics. Using experimental melanoma models, we evaluated the in vivo imaging behavior of novel Manganese-52-labeled (<sup>52</sup>Mn) randomly methylated beta-cyclodextrin ([<sup>52</sup>Mn]Mn-DOTAGA-RAMEB) and compared it with the following well-established tumor-specific probes: melanocortin-1 receptor (MC1-R)-affine [<sup>68</sup>Ga]Ga-DOTA-NAPamide and PGE2 selective [<sup>68</sup>Ga]Ga-DOTAGA-RAMEB cyclodextrin.

Mammalian retrotransposons constitute 40% of the genome. During tissue regeneration, adult stem cells coordinately repress retrotransposons and activate lineage genes, but how this coordination is controlled is poorly understood. Here, we observed that dynamic expression of histone methyltransferase SETDB1 (a retrotransposon repressor) closely mirrors stem cell activities in murine skin. SETDB1 ablation leads to the reactivation of endogenous retroviruses (ERVs, a type of retrotransposon) and the assembly of viral-like particles, resulting in hair loss and stem cell exhaustion that is reversible by antiviral drugs. Mechanistically, at least two molecularly and spatially distinct pathways are responsible: antiviral defense mediated by hair follicle stem cells and progenitors and antiviral-independent response due to replication stress in transient amplifying cells. ERV reactivation is promoted by DNA demethylase ten-eleven translocation (TET)-mediated hydroxymethylation and recapitulated by ablating cell fate transcription factors. Together, we demonstrated ERV silencing is coupled with stem cell activity and essential for adult hair regeneration.

For many cancer sites, it is unclear to what extent differences in health insurance coverage contribute to racial and ethnic disparities in stage III-IV diagnoses. Using the National Cancer Database (1,893,026 patients aged 18-64 years, diagnosed between 2013-2019), we investigated a potential mediating role of health insurance (privately insured vs uninsured) in explaining racial and ethnic disparities in stage at diagnosis of 10 cancers (ie, breast, prostate, colorectal, lung, cervical, uterine, bladder, head and neck, skin melanoma), detectable early through screening, physical examination, or clinical symptoms. The analyses provided evidence of mediation of non-Hispanic Black vs White disparities in eight cancers (range of proportions mediated: 4.5%-29.1%); Hispanic vs non-Hispanic White disparities in six cancers (13.2%-68.8%); non-Hispanic Asian/Pacific Islander vs White disparities in three cancers (5.8%-11.3%). To summarize, health insurance accounts for a significant proportion of the racial and ethnic disparities in stage III-IV diagnoses across a wide range of cancers.

The Case A 47-year-old woman with a history of drug-resistant epilepsy during childhood presented to the emergency department with sudden dyspnea and chest pain. Upon admission, her oxygen saturation was 88%. A chest CT scan revealed pulmonary cystic lesions consistent with lymphangioleiomyomatosis and a right spontaneous pneumothorax, which resolved with the placement of a chest tube. Physical examination revealed a hypopigmented macule on the skin of the lumbar region, facial angiofibromas, and periungual fibromas. An abdominal MRI documented multiple bilateral renal tumors that were hypointense on T2-weighted imaging and showed a black boundary artifact, suggestive of fat-poor angiomyolipomas (AMLs). Subsequent percutaneous biopsy of the largest renal tumor confirmed the diagnosis of angiomyolipoma (positive for HMB-45 on immunohistochemistry). The brain MRI revealed subependymal nodules. The pulmonary function tests showed a mild obstructive pattern. Germline genetic testing confirmed the suspected diagnosis, and the patient started oral systemic treatment with everolimus (Afinitor) 10 mg once daily, along with dexamethasone rinses for prophylaxis.

<b>Aims/Background</b> Acute radiation dermatitis is the most common complication of radiotherapy in patients with breast cancer, with mild severity relieved by symptomatic treatment and moderate-to-severe severity leading to compromised skin integrity and affecting the patient's quality of life. Therefore, this study aims to develop a prediction model for moderate-to-severe acute radiation dermatitis in patients with breast cancer to reduce its severity. <b>Methods</b> A retrospective analysis of 713 patients receiving radiotherapy for breast cancer at the Affiliated Cancer Hospital of Xinjiang Medical University from January 2019 to December 2023 was conducted, with January 2019 to December 2021 serving as the training group (497 patients) and January 2022 to December 2023 serving as the validation group (216 patients). Patients in the training group were classified as having mild (383 patients) or moderately severe (114 patients) acute radiation dermatitis. Binary logistic regression was used to analyze the independent effects on moderately severe acute radiation dermatitis in patients with breast cancer, and a predictive model of the bar-folding plot was constructed and validated. <b>Results</b> Univariable analysis revealed that age, body mass index, targeted therapy, oral tamoxifen use, hyperlipidemia, diabetes, positive regional lymph node metastasis, value-added index, and triple-negative breast cancer were factors influencing moderate-to-severe acute radiation dermatitis in patients with breast cancer. Multivariate analysis showed that body mass index, hyperlipidemia, diabetes, positive regional lymph node metastasis, and value-added index were independent influencing factors for moderate-to-severe acute radiation dermatitis in patients with breast cancer. A nomogram prediction model was constructed, and the area under the receiver operating characteristic curve of the model was 0.814 and 0.743 for internal and external validation, respectively. The calibration curve showed that the model predicted moderate-to-severe acute radiation dermatitis better, and the decision curve analysis curve showed that the model had a high clinical benefit. <b>Conclusion</b> This risk prediction model can predict moderate-to-severe acute radiation dermatitis in patients with breast cancer, and help clinical providers screen high-risk patients and reduce acute radiation dermatitis severity.

In vitro models are crucial in cancer research, but they must truthfully mimic in vivo tumors for clinical relevance. The development of unprecedent melanoma quadruple multicellular tumoroids (MCTs) is proposed comprising tumor cells, keratinocytes, fibroblasts, and monocytes that replicate tumor architecture, tumor microenvironment, and secretome behavior. These MCTs of 300 µm in diameter secreted keratin and collagen, showing complexity proportional to their cell combinations. Further, closely resembled in vivo tumors in terms of cells organization, growth, progression, and immune behavior. Drug screening using these MCTs demonstrated their potential as patient-derived platforms for precision medicine. These findings highlight the true value of MCTs for studying melanoma biology and testing therapeutic interventions with greater precision and relevance to human disease.

In Japan, pharmaceutical approval for the use of the da Vinci SP (dV SP) Surgical System in colorectal cancer surgery was obtained in September 2022. This system has an operating arm with three instruments and one scope to be manipulated through a single incision in colorectal cancer surgery. An 88-year-old female presented to our hospital with melena and was diagnosed with cStage IIa descending colon cancer (cT3N0M0). The patient underwent left hemicolectomy with the dV SP using an Access Port kit. The Access Port kit was inserted into a 3-cm vertical skin incision at the umbilicus. With only this surgical wound, mobilization from the rectum to the colon, and lymph node dissection were performed. Herein, we report the world's first descending colon cancer resection with the dV SP using an Access Port kit.

External beam radiation therapy (RT) can induce toxicity in patients surgically treated for breast cancer. Modern irradiation techniques have lowered the incidence and severity of radiation-induced injuries; however, their side effects on normal tissues remain challenging. This review illustrates early and late changes observed using ultrasound (US) imaging, including echocardiography, at the skin, muscle, pleura, lungs, and heart levels. The US findings and the potential role of this technique in detecting and grading early and late complications of RT are highlighted in this article. US has proven useful in the differential diagnosis of post-RT complications, including but not limited to cancer recurrence and toxicity from other sources, such as anticancer drugs. Additionally, considering the progressive nature of RT-induced injury, early detection of toxicity may be helpful in the individual stratification of damage risk and serve as a tool for patient screening and management. In these cases, US can be used as a radiation-free biomarker of RT side effects at the subclinical stage.

Targeted therapeutics for high-risk cancers remain an unmet medical need. Here we report the results of a large-scale screen of over 11,000 molecules for their ability to inhibit the survival and growth in vitro of human leukemic cells from multiple sources including patient samples, de novo generated human leukemia models, and established human leukemic cell lines. The responses of cells from de novo models were most similar to those of patient samples, both of which showed striking differences from the cell-line responses. Analysis of differences in subtype-specific therapeutic vulnerabilities made possible by the scale of this screen enabled the identification of new specific modulators of apoptosis, while also highlighting the complex polypharmacology of anti-leukemic small molecules such as shikonin. These findings introduce a new platform for uncovering new therapeutic options for high-risk human leukemia, in addition to reinforcing the importance of the test sample choice for effective drug discovery.

There have been several reports of skin manifestations in patients with coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19). However, it is unclear whether severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2 (SARS-CoV-2) RNA can be detected on the skin surface, including the sebum, of these patients. In this study, SARS-CoV-2 RNA was detected using real-time reverse-transcription polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) assay of skin surface lipids (SSLs) collected using an oil-blotting film from the faces of hospitalized patients with COVID-19. Human transcriptome analysis was also performed using the same samples. In facial SSLs of patients with COVID-19, the RT-PCR positivity rate was 84.6% (11/13 samples) within 5 days and 30.4% (7/23 samples) by 6-10 days of symptom onset. In the transcriptome analysis, the most characteristic SSL-RNA profile was the upregulation of interferon-stimulated gene (ISG)-related genes, such as ISG15, IFITM1, and MX1. This study presents an alternative technique using SSLs for non-invasive SARS-CoV-2 RNA detection and simultaneous analysis of human molecular pathogenesis in patients with COVID-19.

In recent years, the advent of spatial transcriptomics (ST) technology has unlocked unprecedented opportunities for delving into the complexities of gene expression patterns within intricate biological systems. Despite its transformative potential, the prohibitive cost of ST technology remains a significant barrier to its widespread adoption in large-scale studies. An alternative, more cost-effective strategy involves employing artificial intelligence to predict gene expression levels using readily accessible whole-slide images stained with Hematoxylin and Eosin (H&E). However, existing methods have yet to fully capitalize on multimodal information provided by H&E images and ST data with spatial location. In this paper, we propose mclSTExp, a multimodal contrastive learning with Transformer and Densenet-121 encoder for Spatial Transcriptomics Expression prediction. We conceptualize each spot as a "word", integrating its intrinsic features with spatial context through the self-attention mechanism of a Transformer encoder. This integration is further enriched by incorporating image features via contrastive learning, thereby enhancing the predictive capability of our model. We conducted an extensive evaluation of highly variable genes in two breast cancer datasets and a skin squamous cell carcinoma dataset, and the results demonstrate that mclSTExp exhibits superior performance in predicting spatial gene expression. Moreover, mclSTExp has shown promise in interpreting cancer-specific overexpressed genes, elucidating immune-related genes, and identifying specialized spatial domains annotated by pathologists. Our source code is available at https://github.com/shizhiceng/mclSTExp.

Immune checkpoint inhibitors interfere with T cell exhaustion but often fail to cure or control cancer long-term in patients. Using a genetic screen in C57BL/6J mice, we discovered a mutation in host H2-Aa that caused strong immune-mediated resistance to mouse melanomas. H2-Aa encodes an MHC class II α chain, and its absence in C57BL/6J mice eliminates all MHC-II expression. H2-Aa deficiency, specifically in dendritic cells (DC), led to a quantitative increase in type 2 conventional DC (cDC2) and a decrease in cDC1. H2-Aa-deficient cDC2, but not cDC1, were essential for melanoma suppression and effectively cross-primed and recruited CD8 T cells into tumors. Lack of T regulatory cells, also observed in H2-Aa deficiency, contributed to melanoma suppression. Acute disruption of H2-Aa was therapeutic in melanoma-bearing mice, particularly when combined with checkpoint inhibition, which had no therapeutic effect by itself. Our findings suggest that inhibiting MHC-II may be an effective immunotherapeutic approach to enhance immune responses to cancer.

Erythema nodosum (EN) is a reactive inflammatory panniculitis, which has been associated with medications, infections, autoimmune and autoinflammatory diseases. It has rarely been associated with neoplasms. We present the case of a 61-year old woman who was admitted because 3-week history of painful erythematous subcutaneous nodules on the lower limbs clinically consistent with EN, which was confirmed by skin biopsy. The patient denied use of medication. No general or systemic symptoms were present. As part of his study, an abdominal ultrasound and later magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) was done and lesions suggestive of liver metastases were reported. An ultrasound guided liver biopsy was then performed and pathology studies evidence a well differentiated grade II gastro-enteropancreatic neuroendocrine tumor (GEP-NET). A 9mTc-Octreotide scintigraphy evidenced a positive expression of somatostatin receptor in the liver and in a nodular mesenteric lesion in contact with an intestinal loop. The patient began treatment with lanreotide and was scheduled for cytoreductive surgery. During surgery, 50 cm of the small intestine, gallbladder, mesenteric fat and a 4.2x3.3 × 1 cm tumor located on the VII hepatic lobe were resected. Subsequently EN lesions of the lower extremities resolved. We present a rare case of GEP-NET-associated EN, that improved with surgical tumor cytoreduction and hormone therapy.

A diabetic foot ulcer (DFU) is an open sore or wound that typically develops on the bottom of the foot. Almost 15% of people with diabetes are suffering from delayed wound healing worldwide. The main vehicle for the development of ulcers in the diabetic population is poor circulation and peripheral neuropathy. Chronic injuries from diabetes frequently lead to traumatic lower leg amputations. Hydrogels are three-dimensional gels that can be fabricated from natural polymers and synthetic polymers. Biopolymers are flexible, elastic, or fibrous materials that come from a natural source, such as plants, animals, bacteria, or other living things. Some of the naturally occurring polymers that are frequently employed in wound dressing applications include polysaccharides and proteins. These polymers can be employed for many therapeutic applications because of their inherent biocompatibility, low immunogenicity, non-toxicity, and biodegradability. They represent a tuneable platform for enhancing skin healing. Therefore, this review paper interprets how natural biopolymers and their various hydrogel forms can be potentially used for diabetic wound healing.

Merkel cell carcinoma (MCC) is a rare and aggressive skin cancer that can be easily misdiagnosed in its early stages. Clinicians should maintain a high index of suspicion for rapidly growing skin lesions in elderly patients and promptly investigate with histopathology and immunohistochemistry. Treatment for MCC should be individualized, considering the patient's age, overall health, and quality of life. Close follow-up is essential to detect recurrence or metastasis early.

Radiotherapy (RT), a common cancer treatment, unintentionally harms surrounding tissues, including the skin, and hinders wound healing years after treatment. This study aims to understand the mechanisms behind these late-onset adverse effects. We compare skin biopsies from previously irradiated (RT<sup>+</sup>) and non-irradiated (RT<sup>-</sup>) sites in breast cancer survivors who underwent RT years ago. Here we show that the RT<sup>+</sup> skin has compromised healing capacity and fibroblast functions. Using ATAC-seq, we discover altered chromatin landscapes in RT<sup>+</sup> fibroblasts, with THBS1 identified as a crucial epigenetically primed wound repair-related gene. This is further confirmed by single-cell RNA-sequencing and spatial transcriptomic analysis of human wounds. Notably, fibroblasts in both murine and human post-radiation wound models show heightened and sustained THBS1 expression, impairing fibroblast motility and contractility. Treatment with anti-THBS1 antibodies promotes ex vivo wound closure in RT<sup>+</sup> skin from breast cancer survivors. Our findings suggest that fibroblasts retain a long-term radiation memory in the form of epigenetic changes. Targeting this maladaptive epigenetic memory could mitigate RT's late-onset adverse effects, improving the quality of life for cancer survivors.

Centrosomes are the major microtubule organizing centers of animal cells. Supernumerary centrosomes are a common feature of human tumors and associated with karyotype abnormalities and aggressive disease, but whether they are cause or consequence of cancer remains controversial. Here, we analyzed the consequences of centrosome amplification by generating transgenic mice in which centrosome numbers can be increased by overexpression of the structural centrosome protein STIL. We show that STIL overexpression induces centrosome amplification and aneuploidy, leading to senescence, apoptosis, and impaired proliferation in mouse embryonic fibroblasts, and microcephaly with increased perinatal lethality and shortened lifespan in mice. Importantly, both overall tumor formation in mice with constitutive, global STIL overexpression and chemical skin carcinogenesis in animals with inducible, skin-specific STIL overexpression were reduced, an effect that was not rescued by concomitant interference with p53 function. These results suggest that supernumerary centrosomes impair proliferation in vitro as well as in vivo, resulting in reduced lifespan and delayed spontaneous as well as carcinogen-induced tumor formation.

Mesenchymal tumors of the skin are rare and clinically heterogeneous, and can represent diagnostic challenge for pathologists. Most of these lesions have overlapping clinical and histological features, thus the understanding of architectural patterns, cytoplasmic and stromal features can facilitate proper diagnosis. Anatomic site may be an important factor in the differential diagnosis, as are patient's age and sex. Ancillary tests are often required and can be useful to rule out other entities. Molecular diagnostics is playing an increasingly important role in the diagnosis of soft tissue neoplasms. Here, we review clinical, histological, and molecular features of some of the most common of these uncommon entities including benign and malignant lesions.

Studies suggest heterogeneity in cancer cachexia (CC) among models and biological sexes, yet examinations comparing models and sexes are scarce. We compared the transcriptional landscape of skeletal muscle across murine CC models and biological sexes during early and late CC. Global gene expression analyses were performed on gastrocnemius (LLC-Lewis Lung Carcinoma), quadriceps (KPC-pancreatic), and tibialis anterior (C26-colorectal and <i>Apc<sup>Min/+</sup></i>) muscles across biological sexes. Differentially expressed genes (DEGs) were identified using an adj-p-value of <0.05, followed by pathway and computational cistrome analyses. Integrating all controls, early, and late-stage of all models and sexes revealed up to 68% of DEGs and pathways were enriched at early and late CC, indicating a conserved transcriptional profile during CC development. Comparing DEGs and pathways within sexes and across models, in early-CC, the transcriptional response was highly heterogeneous. At late-stage, 11.5% of upregulated and 10% of downregulated genes were shared between models in males, while 18.9% of upregulated and 7% of downregulated DEGs were shared in females. Shared DEGs were enriched in proteasome and mitophagy/autophagy pathways (upregulated), and downregulation of energy metabolism pathways in males only. Between sexes, though proportion of shared DEGs was low (<16%), similar pathway enrichment was observed, including proteasome and mitophagy at late-stage CC. In early-CC, <i>Osmr</i> upregulation was the only commonality across all models and sexes, while CLOCK and ARNTL/BMAL1 were predicted transcriptional factors associated with dysregulations in all three male models. This study highlights sex and model differences in CC progression and suggests conserved transcriptional changes as potential therapeutic targets.

Cutaneous squamous cell carcinoma (cSCC) is an increasingly common malignancy of the skin and the leading cause of death from skin cancer in adults over the age of 85. Fibroblast growth factor receptor 2 (FGFR2) has been identified as an important effector of signaling pathways that lead to the growth and development of cSCC. In recent years, there have been numerous studies evaluating the role FGFR2 plays in multiple cancers, its contribution to resistance to anticancer therapy, and new drugs that may be used to inhibit FGFR2. This review will provide an overview of our current understanding of FGFR2 and potential mechanisms in which we can target FGFR2 in cSCC. The goals of this review are the following: (1) to highlight our current knowledge of the role of FGFR2 in healthy skin and contrast this with its role in the development of cancer; (2) to further explain the specific molecular mechanisms that FGFR2 uses to promote tumorigenesis; (3) to describe how FGFR2 contributes to more invasive disease; (4) to describe its immunosuppressive effects in skin; and (5) to evaluate its effect on current anticancer therapy and discuss therapies on the horizon to target FGFR2 related malignancy.

Observational studies have indicated that inflammatory bowel disease (IBD) patients have higher incidence of skin carcinoma (SC), including melanoma skin carcinoma (MSC) and nonmelanoma skin carcinoma (NMSC) than healthy people. However, whether there is a causal relationship between the 2 is unclear. The purpose of this study was to evaluate the causality of IBD on SC using the Mendelian randomization (MR) analysis. We performed a two-sample MR analysis using publicly available genome-wide association study data. Eligible instrumental variables were selected based on the 3 core assumptions of MR analysis. The inverse-variance weighted (IVW) approach served as the primary analytical method. Supplementary analyses were conducted using MR-Egger regression, the weighted median, the weighted mode, and MR pleiotropy residual sum and outlier methods. Genetically predicted IBD (IVW odds ratio [OR] = 1.07, 95% confidence interval [CI]: 1.02-1.13, P = .011) and ulcerative colitis (UC; IVW OR = 1.09, 95% CI: 1.03-1.16, P = .003) were associated with an increased risk of MSC. Results of complementary methods were consistent with those of the IVW method with the exception of the weighted mode. In addition, Crohn disease (CD; IVW OR = 1.04, 95% CI: 0.99-1.08, P = .128) did not have a causal effect on MSC. Moreover, IBD (IVW OR = 1.03, 95% CI: 1.00-1.07, P = .034) and CD (IVW OR = 1.03, 95% CI: 1.00-1.06, P = .045) were associated with an increased risk of NMSC. However, UC (IVW OR = 1.00, 95% CI: 0.97-1.04, P = .803) was not significantly associated with an increased risk of NMSC. Our study revealed genetically predicted associations between IBD and the risks of MSC and NMSC in European populations. Furthermore, UC was associated with an increased risk of MSC, while CD was associated with a higher risk of NMSC. However, the potential influence of immunosuppressive agents or biologics cannot be excluded.

A thorough assessment of calcium/calmodulin dependent protein kinase kinase 2 (CAMKK2) in pan-cancer studies is currently absent. We integrate multi-omics and clinical data to conduct a molecular landscape of CAMKK2. Gene variation results revealed abnormal high frequency mutations of CAMKK2 in uterine corpus endometrial carcinoma, while expression level analysis demonstrated relatively high expression of CAMKK2 in prostate adenocarcinoma. The aberrant expression of CAMKK2 was found to be predictive of survival outcomes in several cancer types. Additionally, we identified potential regulators of CAMKK2 expression, including miRNAs such as miR.129.1.3p, as well as small-molecule drugs such as EPZ004777, which significantly correlated with CAMKK2 expression. Single-cell transcriptome analysis of kidney renal clear cell carcinoma further revealed a significantly higher expression of CAMKK2 in and monocyte and macrophage M1. Furthermore, in the kidney renal clear cell carcinoma IMvigor210 cohort, patients ongoing immunotherapy with higher CAMKK2 expression experienced a significantly longer median overall survival, but it was observed that in bladder urothelial carcinoma GSE176307 and skin cutaneous melanoma GSE78220 cohorts, CAMKK2 might significantly prolong overall survival. Briefly, CAMKK2 emerges as a promising molecular biomarker that holds potential implications for prognostic evaluation and predicting the effectiveness of immunotherapy across cancers.

Accumulating evidence supports the notion that S100A16 exhibits differential expression in many human cancers, affecting cellular functions associated with tumorigenesis through various signaling pathways. While extensive research has been conducted on S100A16 in specific cancer types, a comprehensive evaluation of its role across diverse cancers remains lacking. To explore the prognostic significance, drug sensitivity, and immunomodulatory roles of S100A16, a thorough analysis was conducted at a pan-cancer level using multiple databases. Our findings revealed high expression of S100A16 RNA in various human cancers. Importantly, this elevated expression was linked to disease prognosis and drug sensitivity across a spectrum of cancers. Genetic alterations in S100A16 were characterized across multiple cancer types, and a confirmed correlation was observed in the prognosis of skin cutaneous melanoma (SKCM). Furthermore, our study demonstrated a significant association between S100A16 expression and the infiltrating levels of diverse cell types in the tumor microenvironment (TME), suggesting its potential as a prognosis predictor for immunotherapy. Novel collections of miRNAs, such as has-miR-423-5p, has-miR-769-5p, has-miR-151a-3p, and has-miR-550a-5p, targeting S100A16 at a pan-cancer level were predicted through various databases. These findings contribute to a comprehensive understanding the role of S100A16 in prognosis prediction, chemotherapy, and immunotherapy, providing valuable insights for identifying novel targets in cancer treatment.

Diabetes insipidus (DI) is a disorder of water hemostasis that is associated with polyuria-polydipsia syndrome. Central DI (CDI) primarily results from autoimmune destruction, traumatic injury, or anatomical damage caused by neoplasms. Craniopharyngioma, germinoma, and distant metastases are the main neoplastic causes, with pituitary adenomas rarely manifesting as CDI. Pituitary gland metastasis is rare, with the vast majority of cases being asymptomatic. We present a rare case of pituitary metastasis originating from small-cell carcinoma of the lung with CDI and skin swellings as the primary manifestation, without any evidence of the primary malignancy upon initial presentation. A 56-year-old chronic smoker with newly diagnosed type-2 diabetes mellitus presented with a history of polydipsia and polyuria along with soft tissue swellings in the axilla and the chest for the last 3 months. A water deprivation test and a desmopressin challenge test were performed, revealing the presence of CDI. In light of the CDI, a contrast-enhanced magnetic resonance imaging brain was performed, which displayed a loss of pituitary bright spot and four T2 isointense lesions with post-contrast enhancement in the left frontal, parietal, occipital, and right temporal lobes, suggestive of metastatic lesions. Fine needle aspiration cytology of the swelling revealed cytomorphological characteristics indicating the presence of malignancy, specifically favoring carcinoma. Contrast-enhanced computed tomography thorax revealed a right hilar lung mass infiltrating the surrounding structures with multiple regional and distant metastases. A lung biopsy confirmed the presence of small-cell lung carcinoma (SCLC). The final diagnosis was advanced SCLC with multiple distant metastases associated with CDI, and the patient is currently receiving palliative care and inhalational desmopressin. In conclusion, metastatic lesions and lung cancer must be considered early when patients present with polydipsia and polyuria symptoms.

Cutaneous squamous cell carcinoma (cSCC) accounts for 20% of all skin cancer deaths globally, making it the second-highest subtype of skin cancer. The prevalence of cSCC in humans, as well as the poor capacity for an efficient prognosis, highlights the need to uncover alternative actors and mechanisms at the foundation of skin cancer development. Significant advances have been made to better understand some key factors in cSCC progression. However, little is known about the role of noncoding RNAs, particularly of a specific category called long noncoding RNA (lncRNA). By performing pseudobulk analysis of single-cell sequencing data from normal and cSCC human skin tissues, we determined a global portfolio of lncRNAs specifically expressed in keratinocyte subpopulations. Integration of CRISPR interference screens in vitro and the xenograft model identified several lncRNAs impacting the growth of cSCC cancer lines both in vitro and in vivo. Among these, we further validated LINC00704 and LINC01116 as proliferation-regulating lncRNAs in cSCC lines and potential biomarkers of cSCC progression. Taken together, our study provides a comprehensive signature of lncRNAs with roles in regulating cSCC progression.

Effective skin cancer detection is crucial for early intervention and improved treatment outcomes. Previous studies have primarily focused on enhancing the performance of skin lesion classification models. However, there is a growing need to consider the practical requirements of real-world scenarios, such as portable applications that require lightweight models embedded in devices. Therefore, this study aims to propose a novel method that can address the major-type misclassification problem with a lightweight model. This study proposes an innovative Lightweight Dual Projection-Head Hierarchical contrastive learning (LightDPH) method. We introduce a dual projection-head mechanism to a contrastive learning framework. This mechanism is utilized to train a model with our proposed multi-level contrastive loss (MultiCon Loss), which can effectively learn hierarchical information from samples. Meanwhile, we present a distance-based weight (DBW) function to adjust losses based on hierarchical levels. This unique combination of MultiCon Loss and DBW function in LightDPH tackles the problem of major-type misclassification with lightweight models and enhances the model's sensitivity in skin lesion classification. The experimental results demonstrate that LightDPH significantly reduces the number of parameters by 52.6% and computational complexity by 29.9% in GFLOPs while maintaining high classification performance comparable to state-of-the-art methods. This study also presented a novel evaluation metric, model efficiency score (MES), to evaluate the cost-effectiveness of models with scaling and classification performance. The proposed LightDPH effectively mitigates major-type misclassification and works in a resource-efficient manner, making it highly suitable for clinical applications in resource-constrained environments. To the best of our knowledge, this is the first work that develops an effective lightweight hierarchical classification model for skin lesion detection.

Cutaneous side effects from radiotherapy are commonly reported in breast cancer patients. Radiation-induced hemorrhagic bullous lichen sclerosus (RHBLS) of the breast is a rare, but important, complication of radiotherapy. RHBLS typically presents as painful, hemorrhagic bullae with surrounding sclerotic tissue. A 71-year-old female with a history of whole breast radiotherapy for invasive ductal carcinoma of the right breast and ductal carcinoma in situ (DCIS) of the left breast presented to the clinic with pruritic, firm, and erythematous plaques involving the inframammary folds that progressed into large, painful, hemorrhagic bullae surrounded by porcelain-white skin over several weeks. Biopsy was consistent with RHBLS. She was initially treated with systemic steroids and Clobetasol 0.05% ointment twice daily with partial improvement. To the best of our knowledge, only three definitive cases have been previously reported in the literature making this the fourth case.

Blastic plasmacytoid dendritic cell neoplasm (BPDCN) is a rare and aggressive blood cancer that often presents with skin lesions and can involve other organs, including the bone marrow. Despite initial responses to treatment, most patients eventually experience disease progression. We report the case of an 82-year-old male with a red chest nodule, later diagnosed with BPDCN and acute myeloid leukemia (AML). Dermoscopy revealed reddish-purple dots, and a biopsy confirmed BPDCN. The patient responded to venetoclax and azacitidine but relapsed five months later. This case highlights the importance of early diagnosis of BPDCN and the utility of dermoscopy in this tumor, which can contribute to timely treatment and improved patient outcomes.

Malignant melanoma is the most severe skin cancer with a rising incidence rate. Several noninvasive image techniques and computer-aided diagnosis systems have been developed to help find melanoma in its early stages. However, most previous research utilized dermoscopic images to build a diagnosis model, and only a few used prospective datasets. This study develops and evaluates a convolutional neural network (CNN) for melanoma identification and risk prediction using optical coherence tomography (OCT) imaging of mice skin. Longitudinal tests are performed on four animal models: melanoma mice, dysplastic nevus mice, and their respective controls. The CNN classifies melanoma and healthy tissues with high sensitivity (0.99) and specificity (0.98) and also assigns a risk score to each image based on the probability of melanoma presence, which may facilitate early diagnosis and management of melanoma in clinical settings.

The development of melanoma is closely related to Braf gene, which is a suitable target for CRISPR/Cas9 based gene therapy. CRISPR/Cas9-sgRNA ribonucleoprotein complexes (RNPs) stand out as the safest format compared to plasmid and mRNA delivery. Similarly, lipid nanoparticles (LNPs) emerge as a safer alternative to viral vectors for delivering the CRISPR/Cas9-sgRNA gene editing system. Herein, we have designed multifunctional cationic LNPs specifically tailored for the efficient delivery of Cas9 RNPs targeting the mouse Braf gene through transdermal delivery, aiming to treat mouse melanoma. LNPs are given a positive charge by the addition of a newly synthesized polymer, deoxycholic acid modified polyethyleneimine (PEI-DOCA). Positive charge enables LNPs to be delivered in vivo by binding to negatively charged cell membranes and proteins, thereby facilitating efficient skin penetration and enhancing the delivery of RNPs into melanoma cells for gene editing purposes. Our research demonstrates that these LNPs enhance drug penetration through the skin, successfully delivering the Cas9 RNPs system and specifically targeting the Braf gene. Cas9 RNPs loaded LNPs exert a notable impact on gene editing in melanoma cells, significantly suppressing their proliferation. Furthermore, in mice experiments, the LNPs exhibited skin penetration and tumor targeting capabilities. This innovative LNPs delivery system offers a promising gene therapy approach for melanoma treatment and provides fresh insights into the development of safe and effective delivery systems for Cas9 RNPs in vivo. STATEMENT OF SIGNIFICANCE: CRISPR/Cas9 technology brings new hope for cancer treatment. Cas9 ribonucleoprotein offers direct genome editing, yet delivery challenges persist. For melanoma, transdermal delivery minimizes toxicity but faces skin barrier issues. We designed multifunctional lipid nanoparticles (LNPs) for Cas9 RNP delivery targeting the Braf gene. With metal microneedle pretreatment, our LNPs effectively edited melanoma cells, reducing Braf expression and inhibiting tumor growth. Our study demonstrates LNPs' potential for melanoma therapy and paves the way for efficient in vivo Cas9 RNP delivery systems in cancer therapy.

With the development of electronics, electroplating, printing, and dyeing industries, environmental pollution caused by hexavalent chromium (Cr(VI)) has become increasingly prominent. Skin contact with Cr (VI) can cause allergies or genetic defects, and inhalation can cause cancer, which is a lasting danger to the environment and the human body. Developing effective strategies to monitor Cr(VI) in environmental water or industrial wastewater can evaluate the degree of water pollution and risk warning, thus helping to prevent the spread of Cr(VI) pollution, promote the protection of water resources and the ecological environment, and ensure human safety and sustainable development. On the basis of the regulation of dopamine, boron-doped zinc single-atom nanozymes (Zn/B-NC SAzymes) with three-dimensional nanoflower morphology were controlled in this work. The introduction of B in Zn/B-NC SAzymes and the high metal loading of Zn (6.5 wt%) led to the formation of more active sites, resulting in the material showing excellent enzyme-like activity. H<sub>2</sub>O<sub>2</sub> decomposed to generate superoxide radicals under the catalysis of Zn/B-NC SAzymes, which then oxidized the substrate 3,3',5,5'-tetramethylbenzidine (TMB) to generate blue oxTMB. When Cr(VI) was introduced into the sensor system, the color of blue oxTMB is deepened, and the colorimetric method of Cr(VI) was constructed. The linear range is 0.2-40 μM, LOD is 59 nM, and the visual detection of Cr (VI) is performed with the aid of the smartphone. This work not only provides experimental and theoretical guidance for understanding the active centers of Zn-SAzymes and their catalytic processes, but also provides a promising and alternative detection strategy for the rapid and even visual on-site detection of Cr(VI) in aquatic environments, which is of great significance for the control of Cr(VI) pollution in the environment and industrial wastewater.

This work explores bubble laser technology as an alternative to needles in injection systems for vaccination, cancer treatment, insulin delivery, and catheter hygiene. The technology leverages laser-induced microfiltration and bubble dynamics to create high-speed pneumatic jets that penetrate the skin without needles, addressing discomfort, infection risk, and needle-related concerns. The system's performance is analyzed based on laser wavelength, pulse duration, and Gaussian beam droplet size. The findings indicate a significant increase in spot size at 1064 nm compared with 400 nm, consistent with the diffraction theory. Induced bubble dynamics reveal bubble generation, jetting, and fluid interactions as the Weber number increases, as well as jet velocity and fluid inertia. For femtosecond pulses, increasing the pulse duration from 100 to 1500 fs reduces the bubble lifespan from 0.8 to 0.3 arbitrary units, and the collapse pressure decreases from 2.1 to 0.4 bar. For picosecond pulses, the bubble lifetime decreases from 0.9 to 0.5 arbitrary units, and the pressure drop decreases from 2.0 to 0.4 bar as the pulse length extends from 2000 to 8000 ps. Jet formation in laser jet injection systems is enhanced by short pulses in water that produce longer-lasting bubbles. Drug delivery based on the Rayleigh-Plesset equation is characterized by a low-pressure collapse and short bubble lifetime. Thus, this relationship suggests that bubble laser technology can provide a more controlled and safer method of needle-free procedures, increasing compliance and reducing tissue trauma.

This work explores bubble laser technology as an alternative to needles in injection systems for vaccination, cancer treatment, insulin delivery, and catheter hygiene. The technology leverages laser-induced microfiltration and bubble dynamics to create high-speed pneumatic jets that penetrate the skin without needles, addressing discomfort, infection risk, and needle-related concerns. The system's performance is analyzed based on laser wavelength, pulse duration, and Gaussian beam droplet size. The findings indicate a significant increase in spot size at 1064 nm compared with 400 nm, consistent with the diffraction theory. Induced bubble dynamics reveal bubble generation, jetting, and fluid interactions as the Weber number increases, as well as jet velocity and fluid inertia. For femtosecond pulses, increasing the pulse duration from 100 to 1500 fs reduces the bubble lifespan from 0.8 to 0.3 arbitrary units, and the collapse pressure decreases from 2.1 to 0.4 bar. For picosecond pulses, the bubble lifetime decreases from 0.9 to 0.5 arbitrary units, and the pressure drop decreases from 2.0 to 0.4 bar as the pulse length extends from 2000 to 8000 ps. Jet formation in laser jet injection systems is enhanced by short pulses in water that produce longer-lasting bubbles. Drug delivery based on the Rayleigh-Plesset equation is characterized by a low-pressure collapse and short bubble lifetime. Thus, this relationship suggests that bubble laser technology can provide a more controlled and safer method of needle-free procedures, increasing compliance and reducing tissue trauma.

Several studies have been published describing development of cutaneous malignancy after vismodegib therapy; no systematic review has been conducted to interpret these data. Our objective was to systemically review reported cases of same-site or different-site cutaneous malignancy after smoothened inhibitor (SMOi) therapy for primary basal cell carcinoma (BCC). PubMed, CINAHL, and Scopus were systematically searched January 1, 2012 - March 28, 2024. Inclusion criteria: primary BCC, SMOi therapy, and biopsy-proven secondary malignancy. Exclusion criteria: non-human subjects. Bias was assessed using Risk of Bias in Nonrandomized Studies of Interventions (ROBINS-I) tool. Twenty-three cases describing same-site secondary malignancy were included. Average patient age was 67.2 years, mean treatment time 8.4 months, and average latency period to secondary malignancy development of 10.2 months. Five cases describing different-site secondary cutaneous malignancies were included. Mean patient age was 80.4 years, mean treatment time 2.9 months, and mean latency period 4.5 months. Twenty-seven cases were associated with vismodegib, while one case described vismodegib then sonidegib therapy. Pathologies included squamous cell carcinoma, BCC, basosquamous carcinoma, and malignant melanoma. The mechanism(s) by which same-site and different-site secondary malignancy occur are not known; mechanisms may differ depending on location type and secondary tumor type. We discuss multiple mechanistic hypotheses including pharmacologic selective pressure leading to hedgehog pathway mutant cells and activation of pro-growth signaling, and potential protective effect of hedgehog inhibition from melanoma given reports of rapid growth after SMOi discontinuation. This study is limited by the small number of reported cases. Additional research is needed to investigate these hypotheses.

Several studies have been published describing development of cutaneous malignancy after vismodegib therapy; no systematic review has been conducted to interpret these data. Our objective was to systemically review reported cases of same-site or different-site cutaneous malignancy after smoothened inhibitor (SMOi) therapy for primary basal cell carcinoma (BCC). PubMed, CINAHL, and Scopus were systematically searched January 1, 2012 - March 28, 2024. Inclusion criteria: primary BCC, SMOi therapy, and biopsy-proven secondary malignancy. Exclusion criteria: non-human subjects. Bias was assessed using Risk of Bias in Nonrandomized Studies of Interventions (ROBINS-I) tool. Twenty-three cases describing same-site secondary malignancy were included. Average patient age was 67.2 years, mean treatment time 8.4 months, and average latency period to secondary malignancy development of 10.2 months. Five cases describing different-site secondary cutaneous malignancies were included. Mean patient age was 80.4 years, mean treatment time 2.9 months, and mean latency period 4.5 months. Twenty-seven cases were associated with vismodegib, while one case described vismodegib then sonidegib therapy. Pathologies included squamous cell carcinoma, BCC, basosquamous carcinoma, and malignant melanoma. The mechanism(s) by which same-site and different-site secondary malignancy occur are not known; mechanisms may differ depending on location type and secondary tumor type. We discuss multiple mechanistic hypotheses including pharmacologic selective pressure leading to hedgehog pathway mutant cells and activation of pro-growth signaling, and potential protective effect of hedgehog inhibition from melanoma given reports of rapid growth after SMOi discontinuation. This study is limited by the small number of reported cases. Additional research is needed to investigate these hypotheses.

Extramammary Paget's disease (EMPD) is a rare skin cancer with no standard treatment for advanced-stage disease. Although docetaxel-based chemotherapy is common, no standard treatment exists. Pembrolizumab is approved for solid tumors with a high tumor mutation burden (TMB) and/or high microsatellite instability, and nivolumab was approved in Japan in February 2024 for unresectable advanced or recurrent epithelial skin malignancies. However, there is a lack of real-world data regarding the efficacy of anti-programmed cell death protein 1 (PD-1) therapy for EMPD. We present the case details of three EMPD patients treated with anti-PD-1 therapy after docetaxel treatment, with TMB values of 17.8, 14.3, and 5.0 mut/Mb, respectively, and we review similar reported cases. Even in the cases with a high TMB, the response to anti-PD-1 therapy was not sufficient. Most cases involve second-line or later treatments, so further research is needed to determine the precise effectiveness of anti-PD-1 therapy as a first-line treatment.

This study aimed to describe bullous pemphigoid (BP) associated with immune checkpoint inhibitors (ICIs) reported in the United States Food and Drug Administration adverse event reporting system (FAERS). We obtained reports of ICI-associated BP from the first quarter of 2011 to the first quarter of 2024 in the FAERS database. The reporting odds ratio (ROR) method of the disproportionality analysis was performed to assess the potential risk for ICI-associated BP. We also described the clinical characteristics of ICI-associated BP and evaluated the time to onset (TTO) of BP developed after treatment with ICIs. Eight hundred and six cases of ICI-associated BP were gathered, in which 56.58% of the patients were aged 65 years or older. The majority of patients were male, accounting for 68.49% of all cases. The prevalent potential cancer type was skin cancer (31.64%). The results of the disproportionality analysis showed that males (ROR = 2.10 [1.78-2.49]), patients aged 65 or older (ROR = 2.13 [1.79-2.55]), and patients with skin cancer (ROR = 2.08 [1.80-2.43]) were more likely to develop ICI-associated BP. In comparison to cytotoxic T-lymphocyte-associated antigen 4 inhibitor and programmed cell death ligand 1 inhibitor, programmed cell death 1 inhibitor-associated BP has a higher risk of development (ROR = 24.45 [22.52-26.56]). ICI-associated BP had a median TTO of 204 days (interquartile range 57-426 days). ICI-associated BP is a rare but important immune-related adverse event. Our study provided helpful information to help medical professionals further understand ICI-associated BP.

Merkel cell polyomavirus (MCPyV) is the foremost causative factor of Merkel cell carcinoma (MCC), a rare yet highly aggressive skin cancer. Although the evaluation of circulating IgG antibodies against Merkel cell polyomavirus (MCPyV) LT/sT oncoproteins is clinically useful for MCC diagnosis/prognosis, a limited number of assays for identifying such antibodies have been developed. Herein, a novel indirect immunoassay with synthetic epitopes/mimotopes of MCPyV oncoproteins was computationally designed and experimentally validated on control sera and sera from healthy individuals and MCC patients. Upon computational design of five synthetic peptides, the performance of the immunoassay in detecting anti-oncoprotein IgGs in MCPyV-positive and -negative control sera was evaluated. The immunoassay was afterwards extended on sera from healthy individuals, and, for longitudinal analysis, MCC patients. Performance properties such as sensitivity and specificity and positive/negative predictive values were adequate. Receiver-operating characteristic (ROC) curves indicated that the areas under the curves (AUCs) were within the low/moderately accurate ranges. Immunoassay was repeatable, reproducible and accurate. As expected, the serum anti-oncoprotein IgG prevalence in healthy individuals was low (2%-5%). Anti-oncoprotein IgGs slightly increased when MCC patients experienced partial tumour remission and/or stable disease, compared to baseline. Our data indicate that the newly developed immunoassay is reliable for detecting circulating anti-oncoprotein IgGs both in healthy individuals and MCC patients.

Papillomaviruses (PVs) are oncogenic and infect the skin and mucosa of various host species. Considering the recent advances in research on PVs using rolling circle amplification (RCA) followed by high-throughput sequencing (HTS), in this study, we aimed to investigate the bovine papillomavirus (BPV) types associated with proliferative lesions in the upper alimentary tract of an affected bull and characterize the viral strains through complete genome sequencing using this strategy. We analyzed the PV strains associated with two hyperplastic esophageal lesions through PCR using degenerate primer pairs and RCA, followed by HTS. HTS of the libraries generated using RCA products provided the whole genome sequence of BPV4 present in squamous papilloma, whereas the complete genome sequence of BPV2 and subgenomic fragments of BPV4 were identified in carcinoma in situ (CIS). For the first time, we have sequenced BPV2 identified from the CIS of the bovine upper alimentary canal. Additionally, RCA followed by HTS allowed characterization of the mixed infection by BPV2 and BPV4 in this lesion. These data reveal that BPV4 is not the only BPV type present in CIS of the esophageal mucous membrane; moreover, a mixed infection caused by BPV2 and BPV4 at the tested anatomical site was demonstrated.

Schimmelpenning syndrome, or epidermal nevus syndrome, is a rare, neurocutaneous disorder characterized by skin abnormalities, such as epidermal nevi, and involvement of the central nervous system, including intracranial tumors. There are only a few reported cases of intracranial tumors associated with Schimmelpenning syndrome. In most cases, a single nucleotide mutation in the RAS family proto-oncogenes, like <i>HRAS</i> or <i>KRAS</i> genes, can result in the genetic mosaicism that is responsible for the clinical manifestations of this syndrome. The authors present a case report of a woman with Schimmelpenning syndrome who sought medical help with complaints of progressive headache and dizziness. The radiological and histopathological findings indicated an astrocytoma, IDH-mutant (WHO grade 3). The molecular analysis revealed pathogenic changes in the oncogenic <i>HRAS</i> gene with a prevalence of 31%. The patient underwent surgical treatment and had no neurological sequelae. By presenting such a clinical case, attention is paid to the interrelationship between genetic syndromes and intracranial tumors.

<i>Background/Objectives</i>: Melanoma is an aggressive skin malignancy, and the majority of deaths associated with melanoma result from malignant skin lesions. Our study aims to evaluate the expression of the markers CD133 and NANOG, associated with tumor stem cells, and to analyze their link with epidemiological and histological parameters, thus contributing to early diagnosis and the development of targeted therapies. <i>Methods</i>: We performed a retrospective study in the Mureș Clinical County Hospital, Romania, which included 66 cases of melanoma: 50 primary cutaneous melanomas, 10 metastases, and 6 local recurrences. CD133 and NANOG marker expression was assessed by immunohistochemistry and quantified using the H score. Statistical analyses were applied to determine the correlations between marker expression and clinicopathological parameters. <i>Results</i>: CD133 expression was identified in six cases (12%) of primary melanoma, with a mean H-Score of 29, and was associated with an increased Breslow index and a higher number of mitoses. NANOG expression was positive in 30 cases (60%) of primary melanoma, with a median H-Score of 15 and with increased expression observed in cases with pagetoid migration and lesions in situ. In metastases, eight cases (80%) were positive for NANOG and four (40%) for CD133. Local recurrences showed positive expression for NANOG in four cases (66%). <i>Conclusions</i>: The expression of CD133 and NANOG markers highlights the role of tumor stem cells in melanoma progression. Early identification of these markers could improve diagnosis and treatment, including the application of targeted therapies.

<i>Background and Objectives</i>: Sensation of the breast skin and nipple-areolar complex (NAC) is commonly assumed to be diminished or completely absent following nipple-sparing mastectomy (NSM) with implant- or expander-based reconstruction. The purpose of this cohort study was to evaluate breast skin and NAC long-term touch pressure sensibility, from 1 month to 1 year, after NSM followed by reconstruction with an implant or expander, and patient quality of life (QoL), hypothesizing that sensibility may diminish with a small progressive return throughout the postoperative period. <i>Materials and Methods</i>: This was achieved by performing sensation tests using Semmes-Weinstein monofilaments (SWM) in nine predefined points of the breast and NAC, a two-point discrimination test (TPD) in the four quadrants of the breast, and QoL assessment using the BREAST-Q. We evaluated 42 patients in Pauls Stradiņš Clinical University Hospital, with a total of 66 breasts, who underwent NSM between 2021 and 2023, performing the breast sensation tests before surgery and postoperatively at 1/3/6 months and 1 year. The BREAST-Q was administered to assess patient satisfaction and well-being. <i>Results</i>: Our results reflect a decline in breast skin and NAC sensation in the 1-month evaluation after NSM (mean: 4.67) when compared to the assessment before surgery (mean: 2.57), with a small progressive return reflected in the 3 months (mean: 3.79), 6 months (mean: 3.68), and 1-year evaluations (mean: 3.14). The following were the mean scores obtained from the BREAST-Q: Psychosocial Well-being (mean: 66), Sexual Well-being (mean: 50), Satisfaction with Breasts Pre-OP (mean: 58), satisfaction with breast reconstruction (mean: 52), Satisfaction with Implants, Satisfaction with nipple reconstruction, Physical Well-being Chest, Adverse effects of radiation, and Satisfaction with Information. <i>Conclusions</i>: This study confirms that sensibility diminishes after this procedure, as observed when comparing the sensation evaluation results before the operation with the 1-month evaluation, reflecting a small progressive return in the following months.

Sunscreen products can protect the skin against the harmful effects of UV radiation, including reddening, aging, and cancer. The aim of this research was to evaluate the photoprotective effects of yeast pulcherrimin, an iron-chelating dipeptide. We first investigated the cytotoxicity of pulcherrimin produced by <i>Metschnikowia pulcherrima</i> yeast on the human keratinocyte HaCaT cell line, using the PrestoBlue assay. We assessed the ability of pulcherrimin to induce DNA repair after the exposure of HaCaT cells to oxidative stress. We also evaluated its protective activity against UVC radiation. The sun protective factor (SPF) was calculated using the Mansur equation. The UVA/UVB ratio values for pure pulcherrimin were evaluated using the Boots Star Rating system. The critical wavelength was determined by calculating the integrated optical density curve area. Based on the results, pulcherrimin shows strong cytoprotective effects through antioxidant and photoprotective activities on the HaCaT cell line. The calculated SPFs were 20 and 15 at pH = 7 and pH = 10, respectively. The critical wavelength above 370 nm and the UVA/UVB ratio R > 1 suggest that yeast pulcherrimin-a cyclic dipeptide containing iron-may be considered a promising photoprotective agent.

Prostate cancer is a disease in which cells in the prostate, a gland in the male reproductive system below the bladder, grow out of control and, among men, it is the second-most frequently diagnosed cancer (other than skin cancer). In recent years, prostate cancer death rate has stabilized and, currently, it is the second-most frequent cause of cancer death in men (after lung cancer). Most deaths occur due to metastasis, as cancer cells from the original tumor establish secondary tumors in distant organs. For a long time, classical cell cultures and animal models have been utilized in basic and applied scientific research, including clinical applications for many diseases, such as prostate cancer, since no better alternatives were available. Although helpful in dissecting cellular mechanisms, these models are poor predictors of physiological behavior mainly because of the lack of appropriate microenvironments. Microfluidics has emerged in the last two decades as a technology that could lead to a paradigm shift in life sciences and, in particular, controlling cancer. Microfluidic systems, such as organ-on-chips, have been assembled to mimic the critical functions of human organs. These microphysiological systems enable the long-term maintenance of cellular co-cultures in vitro to reconstitute in vivo tissue-level microenvironments, bridging the gap between traditional cell cultures and animal models. Several reviews on microfluidics for prostate cancer studies have been published focusing on technology advancement and disease progression. As metastatic castration-resistant prostate cancer remains a clinically challenging late-stage cancer, with no curative treatments, we expanded this review to cover recent microfluidic applications related to prostate cancer research. The review includes discussions of the roles of microfluidics in modeling the human prostate, prostate cancer initiation and development, as well as prostate cancer detection and therapy, highlighting potentially major contributions of microfluidics in the continuous march toward eradicating prostate cancer.

<b>Background:</b> Melanoma is a skin cancer that requires early treatment to prevent metastasis. In particular, the superficial spreading melanoma, excisional surgery with local administration of anti-cancer drugs via microneedles is currently considered a potential combination therapy. Quercetin is a natural flavonoid having activities against melanoma cells. Unfortunately, the therapeutic effect is limited by its poor water solubility. <b>Objectives:</b> This study aimed to develop formulations of solid dispersion-loaded dissolving microneedles (SD-DMNs) of quercetin and to investigate their in vitro activities against melanoma cells. <b>Methods</b>: Quercetin solid dispersions (Q-SDs) were prepared using polyvinylpyrrolidone K30 (PVP) via a solvent technique. The optimized Q-SD was selected for preparing Q-SD-loaded dissolving microneedles (Q-SD-DMNs) using a mold casting method. <b>Results</b>: Q-SDs had higher water solubility than that of quercetin by 5-10 times depending on the ratio of quercetin-to-PVP. The presence of quercetin in the Q-SD and Q-SD-DMN were in an amorphous form. The obtained Q-SD-DMNs had pyramid-shaped microneedles. Their strength depended on the compositions, i.e., ratios of hyaluronic acid-to-sodium carboxymethylcellulose and the content of Q-SD. An optimized Q-SD-DMN increased the in vitro skin permeation of quercetin compared to that of microneedles containing quercetin (without being processed). From the molecular investigations, the optimized Q-SD-DMN reduced the viability of the A375 cells (melanoma cells) through the induction of cell apoptosis. It suppressed Bcl-2 gene expression and led to a lower content of Bcl-2 in the cells. <b>Conclusions:</b> The optimized Q-SD-DMN has a potential for use in further in vivo studies as a synergistic method of melanoma treatment.

<b>Background/Objectives:</b> Infrared thermography (IRT) is an imaging technique used in clinical practice to detect changes in skin temperature caused by several dysfunctions, including breast cancer-related lymphedema (BCRL). Thus, the present study aimed to assess the reproducibility and accuracy of IRT in diagnosing BCRL. <b>Methods:</b> This cross-sectional study included participants who underwent a unilateral mastectomy and used indirect volumetry for lymphedema detection. IRT analysis was recorded in four positions, analyzing maximum, mean, and minimum temperatures, as well as the temperature differences between the upper limbs. The analysis encompassed reliability, agreement, accuracy, and the establishment of cut-off points for sensitivity and specificity. A total of 88 upper limbs were included; 176 thermograms were captured, and 1056 regions of interest were analyzed. <b>Results:</b> IRT presented excellent intra- and inter-rater reproducibility and reliability with excellent intraclass correlation coefficient values (0.99 to 1.00). In addition, this assessment reached a sensitivity of 85% and a specificity of 56%; the cut-off point considered a temperature difference of -0.45 °C. <b>Conclusions:</b> IRT was a reliable and reproducible assessment, and the temperature difference between the upper limbs evidenced moderate accuracy. Thus, IRT is recommended as a complementary technique for detecting BCRL.

Feline cancer is increasingly recognized as a major cause of mortality, yet data on tumor prevalence and behavior in cats, particularly in non-Western regions, remain limited. This study analyzed a decade of feline tumor data in Korea from 2012 to 2022, focusing on age, breed, and anatomical location as predictors of malignancy. Data were collected from 683 cats, with regression analysis applied to determine significant associations. Older cats exhibited a markedly higher risk of malignancy, particularly in mast cell and mammary tumors. Tumors in the mammary gland and alimentary tract had malignancy rates exceeding 90%, underscoring the need for early detection in these regions. Interestingly, squamous cell carcinoma was rare in the skin, in stark contrast to Western studies, likely reflecting differences in environmental exposure. While breed was not a statistically significant predictor, certain breeds, including Persians and Russian Blues, showed a higher frequency of malignancy. These findings highlight the importance of regional tumor research in cats and the need for larger, multicenter datasets that incorporate environmental, genetic, and lifestyle factors. Understanding these influences will help refine veterinary care and improve cancer treatment outcomes in feline populations.

DNA damage tolerance pathways that allow for the completion of replication following fork arrest are critical in maintaining genome stability during cell division. The main DNA damage tolerance pathways include strand switching, replication fork reversal and translesion synthesis (TLS). The TLS pathway is mediated by specialised DNA polymerases that can accommodate altered DNA structures during DNA synthesis, and are important in allowing replication to proceed after fork arrest, preventing fork collapse that can generate more deleterious double-strand breaks in the genome. TLS may occur directly at the fork, or at gaps remaining behind the fork, in the process of post-replication repair. Inactivating mutations in the human <i>POLH</i> gene encoding the Y-family DNA polymerase Pol η causes the skin cancer-prone genetic disease xeroderma pigmentosum variant (XPV). Pol η also contributes to chemoresistance during cancer treatment by bypassing DNA lesions induced by anti-cancer drugs including cisplatin. We review the current understanding of the canonical role of Pol η in translesion synthesis following replication arrest, as well as a number of emerging non-canonical roles of the protein in other aspects of DNA metabolism.

Propolis is a sticky substance produced by honeybees (<i>Apis mellifera</i>) through the collection of plant resins, which they mix with secretions from their palate and wax glands. Propolis can inhibit tumor invasion and metastasis, thereby reducing the proliferation of tumor cells and inducing cell apoptosis. Previous research has shown that propolis has an inhibitory effect on skin squamous cell carcinoma A431 cells. Nevertheless, its inhibitory mechanism is unclear because of many significantly different Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes (KEGG) pathways between the ethanol extract of the propolis (EEP) group and the control group of cells. In this study, the main components of EEP and the antitumor mechanism at an IC<sub>50</sub> of 29.04 μg/mL EEP were determined via untargeted metabolomics determined using ultra high-performance liquid chromatography tandem mass spectrometry (UHPLC‒MS/MS), respectively. The results revealed 43 polyphenolic components in the EEP and 1052 metabolites, with 160 significantly upregulated and 143 significantly downregulated metabolites between cells treated with EEP and solvent. The KEGG enrichment results revealed that EEP significantly inhibited A431 cell proliferation via the steroid hormone biosynthesis and linoleic acid metabolism pathways. These findings may provide valuable insights for the development of targeted therapies for the treatment of cutaneous squamous cell carcinoma.

Malignant melanoma is an aggressive cancer, with a high risk of metastasis and mortality rates, characterized by cancer cell heterogeneity and complex tumor microenvironment (TME). Single cell biology is an ideal and powerful tool to address these features at a molecular level. However, this approach requires enzymatic cell dissociation that can influence cellular coverage. By contrast, single nucleus RNA sequencing (snRNA-seq) has substantial advantages including compatibility with frozen samples and the elimination of a dissociation-induced, transcriptional stress response. To better profile and understand the functional diversity of different cellular components in melanoma progression, we performed snRNA-seq of 16,839 nuclei obtained from tumor samples along the growth of murine syngeneic melanoma model carrying a BRAFV600E mutation and collected 9 days or 23 days after subcutaneous cell injection. We defined 11 different subtypes of functional cell clusters among malignant cells and 5 different subsets of myeloid cells that display distinct global transcriptional program and different enrichment in early or advanced stage of tumor growth, confirming that this approach was useful to accurately identify intratumor heterogeneity and dynamics during tumor evolution. The current study offers a deep insight into the biology of melanoma highlighting TME reprogramming through tumor initiation and progression, underlying further discovery of new TME biomarkers which may be potentially druggable.

Although rare, Merkel cell carcinoma (MCC) is a highly aggressive and increasingly prevalent neuroendocrine cancer of the skin. While current interventions, including surgical resection, radiation, and immunotherapy have been employed in treating many patients, those who remain unresponsive to treatment are met with sparse alternatives and a grim prognosis. For this reason, it is of interest to expand the repertoire of available therapies for MCC patients who remain resistant to current primary interventions. Recently, our improved mechanistic understanding of aberrant cell signaling observed in both MCPyV-positive and -negative MCC has facilitated exploration into several small molecules and inhibitors, among them receptor tyrosine kinase inhibitors (TKIs) and somatostatin analogs (SSAs), both of which have positively improved response rates and reduced tumor volumes upon application to treatment of MCC. The introduction of such targeted therapies into treatment protocols holds promise for more personalized care tailored towards patients of diverse subtypes, thereby improving outcomes and mitigating tumor burden, especially for treatment-resistant individuals. In this review, we characterize recent findings surrounding targeted treatments that have been applied to MCC and provide an overview of emerging perspectives on translatable options that can be further developed to offer additional therapeutic avenues for patients with the disease.

Cancer cohorts are now known to be associated with increased rates of clonal hematopoiesis (CH). We sort to characterize the hematopoietic compartment of patients with melanoma and non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) given our recent population level analysis reporting evolving rates of secondary leukemias. The advent of immune checkpoint blockade (ICB) has dramatically changed our understanding of cancer biology and has altered the standards of care for patients. However, the impact of ICB on hematopoietic myeloid clonal expansion remains to be determined. We studied if exposure to ICB therapy affects hematopoietic clonal architecture and if their evolution contributed to altered hematopoiesis. Blood samples from patients with melanoma and NSCLC (<i>n</i> = 142) demonstrated a high prevalence of CH. Serial samples (or post ICB exposure samples; <i>n</i> = 25) were evaluated in melanoma and NSCLC patients. Error-corrected sequencing of a targeted panel of genes recurrently mutated in CH was performed on peripheral blood genomic DNA. In serial sample analysis, we observed that mutations in <i>DNMT3A</i> and <i>TET2</i> increased in size with longer ICB exposures in the melanoma cohort. We also noted that patients with larger size <i>DNMT3A</i> mutations with further post ICB clone size expansion had longer durations of ICB exposure. All serial samples in this cohort showed a statistically significant change in VAF from baseline. In the serial sample analysis of NSCLC patients, we observed similar epigenetic expansion, although not statistically significant. Our study generates a hypothesis for two important questions: (a) Can <i>DNMT3A</i> or <i>TET2</i> CH serve as predictors of a response to ICB therapy and serve as a novel biomarker of response to ICB therapy? (b) As ICB-exposed patients continue to live longer, the myeloid clonal expansion may portend an increased risk for subsequent myeloid malignancy development. Until now, the selective pressure of ICB/T-cell activating therapies on hematopoietic stem cells were less known and we report preliminary evidence of clonal expansion in epigenetic modifier genes (also referred to as inflammatory CH genes).

The influence of UV radiation on skin discoloration, skin aging and the development of skin cancer is widely known. As a part of this study, the effect of extracts from three varieties of <i>Cornus mas</i> L. (<i>C. mas</i> L.) on skin cells exposed to UVA radiation was assessed. The analyses were performed on both normal and cancer skin cells. For this purpose, the potential photoprotective effects of the obtained extracts (aqueous and ethanolic) was assessed by performing two cytotoxicity tests (Alamar blue and Neutral red). Additionally, the antioxidant capacity was compared using three different assays. The 2',7'-dichlorodihydrofluorescein diacetate (H<sub>2</sub>DCFDA) probe was used to evaluate the intracellular level of free radicals in cells exposed to the simultaneous action of UVA radiation and dogwood extracts. Additionally, the ability to inhibit excessive pigmentation was determined by assessing the inhibition of melanin formation and tyrosinase activity. The obtained results confirmed the strong antioxidant properties of dogwood extracts and their photoprotective effect on normal skin cells. The ability to inhibit the viability of melanoma cells was also observed. Additionally, a reduction in oxidative stress in skin cells exposed to UVA radiation and a strong inhibition of melanin formation and tyrosinase activity have been demonstrated. This study shows that dogwood extract could be a valuable cosmetic raw material that can play both a photoprotective and antihyperpigmentation role in cosmetic preparations.

Cancer is the second leading cause of death worldwide. Around half of all cancer patients undergo some type of radiation therapy throughout the course of their treatment. Photon radiation remains (RT) the most widely utilized modality of radiotherapy despite recent advancements in proton radiation therapy (PBT). PBT makes use of the particle's biological property known as the Bragg peak to better spare healthy tissue from radiation damage, with data to support that this treatment modality is less toxic than photon RT. Hence, proton radiation dosimetry looks better compared to photon dosimetry; however, due to proton-specific uncertainties, unexpected acute, subacute, and long-term toxicities can be encountered. Reported neurotoxicity resulting from proton radiation treatments include radiation necrosis, moyamoya syndrome, neurosensory toxicities, brain edema, neuromuscular toxicities, and neurocognitive toxicities. Pulmonary toxicities include pneumonitis and fibrosis, pleural effusions, and bronchial toxicities. Pericarditis, pericardial effusions, and atrial fibrillations are among the cardiac toxicities related to proton therapy. Gastrointestinal and hematological toxicities are also found in the literature. Genitourinary toxicities include urinary and reproductive-related toxicities. Osteological, oral, endocrine, and skin toxicities have also been reported. The side effects will be comparable to the ones following photon RT, nonetheless at an expected lower incidence. The toxicities collected mainly from case reports and clinical trials are described based on the organs affected and functions altered.

Skin cancer is one of the most common malignancies worldwide. Cold atmospheric pressure Plasma (CAP) is increasingly successful in skin cancer therapy, but further research is needed to understand its selective effects on cancer cells at the molecular level. In this study, A431 (squamous cell carcinoma) and HaCaT (non-malignant) cells cultured under identical conditions revealed similar ROS levels but significantly higher antioxidant levels in unstimulated A431 cells, indicating a higher metabolic turnover typical of tumour cells. HaCaT cells, in contrast, showed increased antioxidant levels upon CAP stimulation, reflecting a robust redox adaptation. Specifically, proteins involved in antioxidant pathways, including NF-κB, IκBα, Nrf2, Keap1, IKK, and pIKK, were quantified, and their translocation level upon stimulation was evaluated. CAP treatment significantly elevated Nrf2 nuclear translocation in non-malignant HaCaT cells, indicating a strong protection against oxidative stress, while selectively inducing NF-κB activation in A431 cells, potentially leading to apoptosis. The expression of pro-inflammatory genes like <i>IL-1B</i>, <i>IL-6</i>, and <i>CXCL8</i> was downregulated in A431 cells upon CAP treatment. Notably, CAP enhanced the expression of antioxidant response genes <i>HMOX1</i> and <i>GPX1</i> in non-malignant cells. The differential response between HaCaT and A431 cells underscores the varied antioxidative capacities, contributing to their distinct molecular responses to CAP-induced oxidative stress.

Circadian rhythms, the internal timekeeping systems governing physiological processes, significantly influence skin health, particularly in response to ultraviolet radiation (UVR). Disruptions in circadian rhythms can exacerbate UVR-induced skin damage and increase the risk of skin aging and cancer. This review explores how circadian rhythms affect various aspects of skin physiology and pathology, with a special focus on DNA repair. Circadian regulation ensures optimal DNA repair following UVR-induced damage, reducing mutation accumulation, and enhancing genomic stability. The circadian control over cell proliferation and apoptosis further contributes to skin regeneration and response to UVR. Oxidative stress management is another critical area where circadian rhythms exert influence. Key circadian genes like brain and muscle ARNT-like 1 (<i>BMAL1</i>) and circadian locomotor output cycles kaput (<i>CLOCK</i>) modulate the activity of antioxidant enzymes and signaling pathways to protect cells from oxidative stress. Circadian rhythms also affect inflammatory and immune responses by modulating the inflammatory response and the activity of Langerhans cells and other immune cells in the skin. In summary, circadian rhythms form a complex defense network that manages UVR-induced damage through the precise regulation of DNA damage repair, cell proliferation, apoptosis, inflammatory response, oxidative stress, and hormonal signaling. Understanding these mechanisms provides insights into developing targeted skin protection and improving skin cancer prevention.

Despite the recent development of improved methods of treating melanoma such as targeted therapy, immunotherapy or combined treatment, the number of new cases worldwide is increasing. It is well known that active metabolites of vitamin D<sub>3</sub> and lumisterol (L<sub>3</sub>) exert photoprotective and antiproliferative effects on the skin, while UV radiation is a major environmental risk factor for melanoma. Thus, many natural metabolites and synthetic analogs of steroidal and secosteroidal molecules have been tested on various cancer cells and in animal models. In this study, we tested the anti-melanoma properties of several natural derivatives of vitamin D<sub>3</sub> and L<sub>3</sub> in comparison to 1,25-dihydroxyvitamin D<sub>3</sub> (1,25(OH)<sub>2</sub>D<sub>3</sub>). A significant decrease in melanoma cell proliferation and cell mobility was observed for selected derivatives, with (25R)-27-hydroxyL<sub>3</sub> showing the highest potency (lowest IC50) in A375 cells but lower potency in SK-MEL-28 cells, whereas the parent L<sub>3</sub> failed to inhibit proliferation. The efficacy (% inhibition) by 1,24,25(OH)<sub>3</sub>D<sub>3</sub> and 1,25(OH)<sub>2</sub>D<sub>3</sub> were similar in both cell types. 1,25(OH)<sub>2</sub>D<sub>3</sub> showed higher potency than 1,24,25(OH)<sub>3</sub>D<sub>3</sub> in SK-MEL-28 cells, but lower potency in A375 cells for the inhibition of proliferation. As for 1,25(OH)<sub>2</sub>D<sub>3</sub>, but not the other derivatives tested, treatment of melanoma cells with 1,24,25(OH)<sub>3</sub>D<sub>3</sub> markedly increased the expression of CYP24A1, enhanced translocation of the vitamin D receptor (VDR) from the cytoplasm to the nucleus and also decreased the expression of the proliferation marker Ki67. The effects of the other compounds tested were weaker and occurred only under certain conditions. Our data indicate that 1,24,25(OH)<sub>3</sub>D<sub>3</sub>, which has undergone the first step in 1,25(OH)<sub>2</sub>D<sub>3</sub> inactivation by being hydroxylated at C24, still shows anti-melanoma properties, displaying higher potency than 1,25(OH)<sub>2</sub>D<sub>3</sub> in SK-MEL-28 cells. Furthermore, hydroxylation increases the potency of some of the lumisterol hydroxy-derivatives, as in contrast to L<sub>3</sub>, (25<i>R</i>)-27(OH)L<sub>3</sub> effectively inhibits proliferation and migration of the human malignant melanoma cell line A375.

<b>Background</b>: In recent decades, a significant global increase in the incidence of non-melanoma skin cancer has been observed. To explore the pathogenesis of and potential therapeutic approaches for squamous cell carcinoma, various in vivo studies using mouse models have been conducted. However, investigations comparing different hairless mouse models, with or without melanin, as well as models with hypercholesterolemia and immunosuppression, in terms of their ability to induce squamous cell carcinoma have yet to be undertaken. <b>Methods</b>: Four mouse strains, namely SKH-hr1, SKH-hr2, SKH-hr2+ApoE, and immunodeficient Nude (Foxn1 knockout), were exposed to UVA and UVB radiation three times per week, initially to 1 Minimal Erythemal Dose (MED), incrementally increased weekly to a maximum dose of 3 MED. Clinical evaluation, photodocumentation, and biophysical parameters were monitored, along with proteasome protein activity and histopathological assessments. <b>Results</b>: The SKH-hr1 model primarily developed actinic keratosis without significant progression to invasive squamous cell carcinoma (SCC), while the SKH-hr2 and SKH-hr2+ApoE models exhibited a higher likelihood and intensity of papilloma and aggressive SCC formation, with the latter showing upregulated proteasome activity. Histopathological analysis confirmed the presence of poorly differentiated, invasive SCCs in the SKH-hr2 and SKH-hr2+ApoE models, contrasting with the less aggressive SCCs in the Nude mice and the mixed lesions observed in the SKH-hr1 mice. <b>Conclusions</b>: The SKH-hr2+ApoE and SKH-hr2 mice were identified as the most suitable for further exploration of squamous cell carcinogenesis. In contrast, the SKH-hr1 mice were found to be the least suitable, even though they are albino. Notably, proteasome analysis revealed a potential role of proteasome activity in squamous cell carcinogenesis.

Environmental pollution continues to increase with industrial development and has become a threat to human health. Atmospheric particulate matter (PM) was designated as a Group 1 carcinogen by the International Agency for Research on Cancer in 2013 and is an emerging global environmental risk factor that is a major cause of death related to cardiovascular and respiratory diseases. PM is a complex composed of highly reactive organic matter, chemicals, and metal components, which mainly cause excessive production of reactive oxygen species (ROS) that can lead to DNA and cell damage, endoplasmic reticulum stress, inflammatory responses, atherosclerosis, and airway remodeling, contributing to an increased susceptibility to and the exacerbation of various diseases and infections. PM has various effects on human health depending on the particle size, physical and chemical characteristics, source, and exposure period. PM smaller than 5 μm can penetrate and accumulate in the alveoli and circulatory system, causing harmful effects on the respiratory system, cardiovascular system, skin, and brain. In this review, we describe the relationship and mechanism of ROS-mediated cell damage, oxidative stress, and inflammatory responses caused by PM and the health effects on major organs, as well as comprehensively discuss the harmfulness of PM.

Global mortality data indicates cancer as the second-leading cause of death worldwide. Therefore, there's a pressing need to innovate effective treatments to address this significant medical and societal challenge. In recent years, X-ray-induced photodynamic therapy (X-PDT) has emerged as a promising advancement, revolutionizing traditional photodynamic therapy (PDT) for deeply entrenched malignancies by harnessing penetrating X-rays as external stimuli. Recent developments in X-ray photodynamic therapy have shown a trend toward minimizing radiation doses to remarkably low levels after the proof-of-concept demonstration. Early detection and real-time monitoring are crucial aspects of effective cancer treatment. Sophisticated X-ray imaging techniques have been enhanced by the introduction of X-ray luminescence nano-agents, alongside contrast nanomaterials based on X-ray attenuation. X-ray luminescence-based in vivo imaging offers excellent detection sensitivity and superior image quality in deep tissues at a reasonable cost, due to unhindered penetration and unimpeded auto-fluorescence of X-rays. This review emphasizes the significance of X-ray responsive theranostics, exploring their mechanism of action, feasibility, biocompatibility, and promising prospects in imaging-guided therapy for deep-seated tumors. Additionally, it discusses promising applications of X-PDT in treating breast cancer, liver cancer, lung cancer, skin cancer, and colorectal cancer.

Squamous cell carcinomas (SCCs), arising from the skin, head and neck, lungs, esophagus, and cervix, are collectively among the most common cancers and a frequent cause of cancer morbidity and mortality. Despite distinct stratified epithelial tissues of origin, converging evidence points toward shared biologic pathways across SCCs. With recent breakthroughs in molecular technologies have come novel SCC treatment paradigms, including immunotherapies and targeted therapy. This review compares commonalities and differences across SCCs from different anatomical sites, including risk factors and genetics, as well as cellular and molecular programs driving tumorigenesis. We review landmark discoveries of the "cancer stem cells" (CSCs) that initiate and propagate SCCs and their gene and translational regulation programs. This has led to an appreciation that interactions between CSCs and the immune system play key roles in invasion and therapeutic resistance. Here, we review the unifying principles of SCCs that have emerged from these exciting advances in our understanding of these epithelial cancers.

To examine activity of ibrutinib in steroid-refractory chronic GVHD (SR-cGVHD) after FDA approval, we conducted a multicenter retrospective study. Data were standardly collected (N=270 from 19 centers). Involved organs included skin (75%), eye (61%), mouth (54%), joint/fascia (47%), GI (26%), lung (27%), liver (19%), genital (7%), other (4.4%). NIH severity was mild in 5.7%, moderate 42%, severe 53%. 39% had overlap subtype. KPS was ≥ 80% in 72%. Median prednisone (mg/kg) was 0.21 (0-2.27). Ibrutinib was started at median of 18.2 months after cGVHD onset and in earlier lines of therapy (2nd line: 26%, 3rd: 30%, 4th: 21%, 5th: 9.6%, 6th: 10%, 7th or higher: 1.2%)). Among evaluable subjects, the 6 month NIH overall response rate (CR/PR) was 45% (PR 42%, CR 3%). Median duration of response was 15 months (range 1-46). Liver involvement had association with 6 month ORR (multivariate (MVA) OR 5.49 (95% CI 2.3-14.2, p <0.001). Best overall response was 56%, with most (86%) achieving by 1-3 months. With median follow up for survivors of 30.5 months, FFS was 59% (53-65%) at 6 months and 41% (36-48%) at 12 months. On MVA, increased age (HR 1.01, 95% CI 1.0-1.02, p=0.033), higher baseline prednisone (HR 1.92, 1.09-3.38, p=0.032), and lung involvement (HR 1.58, 1.1-2.28, p=0.016) had worse FFS. Ibrutinib discontinuation was most commonly due to progressive cGVHD (44%) or toxicity (42%). These data support that ibrutinib has activity in SR-cGVHD, provide new insight into factors associated with response and FFS, and demonstrate the toxicity profile associated with discontinuation.

Cottontail rabbit papillomavirus (CRPV), the first papillomavirus associated with tumor development, has been used as a powerful model to study papillomavirus pathogenesis for more than 90 years. However, lack of a comprehensive analysis of the CRPV transcriptome has impeded the understanding of CRPV biology and molecular pathogenesis. Here, we report the construction of a complete CRPV transcription map from Hershey CRPV-induced skin tumor tissues. By using RNA-seq in combination with long-reads PacBio Iso-seq, 5' and 3' RACE, primer-walking RT-PCR, Northern blot, and RNA in situ hybridization, we demonstrated that the CRPV genome transcribes its early and late RNA transcripts unidirectionally from at least five distinct major promoters (P) and polyadenylates its transcripts at two major polyadenylation (pA) sites. The viral early transcripts are primarily transcribed from three "early" promoters, P90, P156, and P907 and polyadenylated at nt 4368 by using an early polyadenylation signal (PAS) at nt 4351. Like other low-risk human papillomaviruses and animal papillomaviruses, CRPV E6 and E7 transcripts are transcribed from three separate early promoters. Transcripts from two "late" promoters, P7525, and P1225, utilize either an early PAS for E1^E4 or a late PAS at 7399 for L2 and L1 RNA polyadenylation at nt 7415 to express capsid L2 and L1 proteins respectively. By using the mapped four 5' splice sites and three 3' splice sites, CRPV RNA transcripts undergo extensive alternative splicing to produce more than 33 viral RNA isoforms for production of at least 12 viral proteins, some of which without codon optimization are expressible in rabbit RK13 and human HEK293T cells. The constructed full CRPV transcription map in this study for the first time will enhance our understanding of the structures and expressions of CRPV genes and their contribution to molecular pathogenesis and tumorigenesis.

Firefighter occupational exposures were categorized as a class 1 (known) carcinogen by the International Agency for Research on Cancer in 2022. As a result, firefighters have become heavily focused on identifying effective and easy to implement decontamination strategies to reduce their chemical exposures. Skin decontamination using wipes post-exposure is one decontamination strategy that every firefighter has available to them. However, firefighters have expressed concerns over the ingredients in the wipe solution increasing dermal absorption. The goal of this study was to determine if the ingredients in skin decontamination wipe solution had any enhancement effect on the dermal absorption of phenanthrene. To determine any enhancement effects, the additive solution of four skin decontamination wipe products was applied to porcine skin 15 min after chemical dosing. The absorption of phenanthrene was tested in vitro using a flow-through diffusion cell system over eight hours. The wipe solution effects on dermal absorption were determined by measuring multiple absorption characteristics including cumulative absorption (µg/cm<sup>2</sup>), absorption efficiency (% dose absorbed), lag time (minutes), flux (µg/cm<sup>2</sup>/h), diffusivity (cm<sup>2</sup>/h), and permeability (cm/h). No penetration enhancement effects were observed in any of the skin decontamination wipe solutions tested; rather, all wipe solutions decreased the absorption of phenanthrene. Slight differences in cumulative absorption among two pairings of skin decontamination wipe solutions, wipes 1 and 3 vs. wipes 2 and 4, were observed, indicating that some ingredients may impact dermal absorption. These findings show that firefighters should continue using skin decontamination wipes to reduce their dermal exposures to fireground contaminants with little concern of increasing the absorption of phenanthrene.

Surgical resection of subcutaneous neoplasms with clear margins is crucial for preventing local recurrence and avoiding adjuvant treatments. However, the evaluation of surgical margins often differs significantly from the histopathological assessment due to tissue shrinkage, which can result in inaccurate therapeutic assessments and unreliable patient prognoses. In this study, ten feline cadavers were utilized. Six 50 mm diameter specimens were collected from three regions (thorax, flank, femur) and measured at three time points: T0 (excision time), T1 (10 min after incision), and T2 (at least 48 h after sample collection and formalin fixation). Samples in the study group were stretched and fixed on a cork plate with pinpoint needles after excision to restore their original dimensions. All specimens exhibited a similar trend. After 48 h of formalin fixation, the control specimens showed significant shrinkage, with a reduction of 25.73% in radius and 26.32% in diameter. In contrast, the study specimens demonstrated minimal changes, with a radius reduction of -0.28% and no change in diameter. The results indicate that all feline skin specimens experienced significant shrinkage of approximately one-quarter from their pre-incisional size. Stretching and pinning the excised tissues allowed for the restoration and maintenance of original dimensions even after formalin fixation. This technique represents a valid and practical approach to minimize tissue shrinkage.

The increased use of immune checkpoint inhibitors (ICIs) across cancer programs has created the need for standardized monitoring and management of immune-related adverse events (irAEs). Delayed recognition without appropriate treatment can have serious and life-threatening consequences. The management of irAEs presents a unique set of challenges that must be addressed at a multidisciplinary level. Although various national and international guidelines and working groups provide high-level recommendations for the management of irAEs, practical guidance is lacking. Furthermore, timely collaboration between specialists requires institutional protocols that enable the early recognition, assessment, and treatment of irAEs. Such protocols should be developed by institution specialists and include algorithms for all healthcare providers involved in the care of patients treated with ICIs. At William Osler Health System in Brampton, Ontario, practical step-by-step multidisciplinary treatment approaches with recommendations for the management of irAEs were developed in collaboration with experts across Canada. Here, we provide an in-depth description of the approaches, outlining baseline investigations prior to the initiation of ICIs, as well as the monitoring and management of irAEs based on symptoms, severity, and involved organ systems. We encourage other centres to adapt and modify our approaches according to their specific needs and requirements.

Hyperprogressive disease (HPD) is described as the unexpected rapid growth of a tumour accompanied by a decline in performance status. While immune checkpoint inhibitors (ICIs) have improved outcomes in advanced melanoma, HPD remains a significant challenge in a subset of patients. Although HPD has been extensively studied in various solid tumours, research specifically focusing on advanced melanoma remains limited. We analysed 158 advanced melanoma patients, with 66.5% (<i>n</i> = 105) receiving anti-PD-1 and 33.5% (<i>n</i> = 53) receiving nivolumab plus ipilimumab. The median overall survival was 4.9 months for patients with HPD compared to 8.9 months for those with progressive disease without HPD (<i>p</i> = 0.014). Factors associated with HPD included liver metastasis (<i>p</i> = 0.002), three or more metastatic sites (<i>p</i> < 0.001), elevated lactate dehydrogenase levels (<i>p</i> = 0.004), and Eastern cooperative oncology group performance status ≥2 (<i>p</i> = 0.023). Multivariate analysis identified the Royal Marsden Hospital score (HR 3.675, 95% CI: 1.166-11.580, <i>p</i> = 0.026) as an independent risk factor for HPD, with the MDA-ICI score also trending towards significance (HR 4.466, 95% CI: 0.947-21.061, <i>p</i> = 0.059). This study provides valuable insights into the frequency and factors associated with HPD in advanced melanoma patients treated with ICIs, highlighting the relevance of clinical markers and scoring systems in predicting HPD risk.

Cutaneous squamous cell carcinoma (cSCC) is the second most common malignant skin tumor. Early and precise diagnosis of tumor staging is crucial for long-term outcomes. While pathological diagnosis has traditionally served as the gold standard, the assessment of differentiation levels heavily depends on subjective judgments. Therefore, how to improve the diagnosis accuracy and objectivity of pathologists has become an urgent problem to be solved. We used multispectral imaging (MSI) to enhance tumor classification. The hematoxylin and eosin (H&E) stained cSCC slides were from Shanghai Ruijin Hospital. Scale-invariant feature transform was applied to multispectral images for image stitching, while the adaptive threshold segmentation method and random forest segmentation method were used for image segmentation, respectively. Synthetic pseudo-color images effectively highlight tissue differences. Quantitative analysis confirms significant variation in the nuclear area between normal and cSCC tissues (<i>p</i> < 0.001), supported by an AUC of 1 in ROC analysis. The AUC within cSCC tissues is 0.57. Further study shows higher nuclear atypia in poorly differentiated cSCC tissues compared to well-differentiated cSCC (<i>p</i> < 0.001), also with an AUC of 1. Lastly, well differentiated cSCC tissues show more and larger keratin pearls. These results have shown that combined MSI with imaging processing techniques will improve H&E stained human cSCC diagnosis accuracy, and it will be well utilized to distinguish histopathological staging features.

Diagnosing atypical pigmented facial lesions (aPFLs) is a challenging topic for dermatologists. Accurate diagnosis of these lesions is crucial for effective patient management, especially in dermatology, where visual assessment plays a central role. Incorrect diagnoses can result in mismanagement, delays in appropriate interventions, and potential harm. AI, however, holds the potential to enhance diagnostic accuracy and provide reliable support to clinicians. This work aimed to evaluate and compare the effectiveness of machine learning (logistic regression of lesion features and patient metadata) and deep learning (CNN analysis of images) models in dermoscopy diagnosis and the management of aPFLs. This study involved the analysis of 1197 dermoscopic images of facial lesions excised due to suspicious and histologically confirmed malignancy, classified into seven classes (lentigo maligna-LM; lentigo maligna melanoma-LMM; atypical nevi-AN; pigmented actinic keratosis-PAK; solar lentigo-SL; seborrheic keratosis-SK; and seborrheic lichenoid keratosis-SLK). Image samples were collected through the Integrated Dermoscopy Score (iDScore) project. The statistical analysis of the dataset shows that the patients mean age was 65.5 ± 14.2, and the gender was equally distributed (580 males-48.5%; 617 females-51.5%). A total of 41.7% of the sample constituted malignant lesions (LM and LMM). Meanwhile, the benign lesions were mainly PAK (19.3%), followed by SL (22.2%), AN (10.4%), SK (4.0%), and SLK (2.3%). The lesions were mainly localised in the cheek and nose areas. A stratified analysis of the assessment provided by the enrolled dermatologists was also performed, resulting in 2445 evaluations of the 1197 images (2.1 evaluations per image on average). The physicians demonstrated higher accuracy in differentiating between malignant and benign lesions (71.2%) than in distinguishing between the seven specific diagnoses across all the images (42.9%). The logistic regression model obtained a precision of 39.1%, a sensitivity of 100%, a specificity of 33.9%, and an accuracy of 53.6% on the test set, while the CNN model showed lower sensitivity (58.2%) and higher precision (47.0%), specificity (90.8%), and accuracy (59.5%) for melanoma diagnosis. This research demonstrates how AI can enhance the diagnostic accuracy in complex dermatological cases like aPFLs by integrating AI models with clinical data and evaluating different diagnostic approaches, paving the way for more precise and scalable AI applications in dermatology, showing their critical role in improving patient management and the outcomes in dermatology.

<i>Origanum vulgare</i> ssp. <i>hirtum</i> essential oil (OEO) is a natural oil with high therapeutic potential. For some applications, however, the development of novel formulations is still needed to improve the bioavailability and stability of OEO. In this study, we describe the fabrication of an original nanocomposite hydroxypropyl cellulose (HPC) physical hydrogel, containing OEO-loaded polymeric micelles, for topical delivery. The concentration of the main active compounds of OEO-carvacol and thymol-was determined using gas chromatography (GC) analysis. OEO was first encapsulated into Pluronic F127 micelles, and then embedded into HPC gel. Micellar and gel formulations of pure polymers and OEO-containing systems were characterized by dynamic light scattering (DLS) and rheology measurements, respectively. Selected formulations were evaluated for cytotoxicity and antiproliferative activity. The hydrogel formulation of HPC with micellar OEO (8% HPC, 2% F127, 1% OEO) exhibited sustained release of the oil and selectivity towards SH-4 tumor cells (an in vitro model of melanoma).

Melanoma, a deadly form of skin cancer, has seen improved survival rates due to advances in diagnosis and treatment, yet the need for further improvement remains critical. Tumor-associated antigens, such as PRAME (Preferentially Expressed Antigen in Melanoma), offer promising avenues for enhanced diagnostic precision, prognostic assessment, and targeted immunotherapy. PRAME, a cancer testis antigen, is selectively expressed in various cancers, including melanoma, and plays a key role in promoting tumorigenesis through inhibition of retinoic acid signaling, epithelial-to-mesenchymal transition, and immune evasion. This review explores the diagnostic utility of PRAME in distinguishing melanoma from benign nevi, its prognostic value in aggressive melanoma subtypes, and its potential as a therapeutic target in cancer vaccines and adoptive T-cell therapies. While PRAME-targeted therapies face challenges such as tumor heterogeneity and immune suppression, ongoing research aims to overcome these barriers, offering hope for more effective melanoma treatments.

This study evaluated ethosomes as a novel nanodelivery system for nutlin-3a, a known MDM2 inhibitor and activator of the p53 pathway, to improve nutlin-3a's poor solubility, limiting its bio-distribution and therapeutic efficacy. The potential of nutlin-3a-loaded ethosomes was investigated on two in vitro models of melanoma: the HT144 cell line p53<sup>wild-type</sup> and the SK-MEL-28 cell line p53<sup>mutated</sup>. Nutlin-3a-loaded ethosomes were characterized for their physicochemical properties and used to treat melanoma cells at different concentrations, considering nutlin-3a solution and empty ethosomes as controls. The biological effects on cells were evaluated 24 and 48 h after treatment by analyzing the cell morphology and viability, cell cycle, and apoptosis rate using flow cytometry and the p53 pathway's activation via Western blotting. The results indicate that ethosomes are delivery systems able to maintain nutlin-3a's functionality and specific biological action, as evidenced by the molecular activation of the p53 pathway and the biological events leading to cell cycle block and apoptosis in p53<sup>wild-type</sup> cells. Nutlin-3a-loaded ethosomes induced morphological changes in the HT144 cell line, with evident apoptotic cells and a reduction in the number of viable cells of over 80%. Furthermore, nutlin-3a-loaded ethosomes successfully modulated two p53-regulated proteins involved in survival/apoptosis, with up to a 2.5-fold increase in membrane TRAIL-R2 and up to an 8.2-fold decrease in Notch-1 (Notch intracellular domain, NICD) protein expression. The expression of these molecules is known to be altered or dysfunctional in a large percentage of melanoma tumors. Notably, ethosomes, regardless of their nutlin-3a loading, exhibited the ability to reduce HT144 melanoma cellular migration, as assessed in real time using xCELLigence, likely due to the modification of lipid rafts, suggesting their potential antimetastatic properties. Overall, nutlin-3a delivery using ethosomes appears to be a significantly effective means for upregulating the p53 pathway and downregulating active Notch-1, while also taking advantage of their unexpected ability to reduce cellular migration. The findings of this study could pave the way for the development of specific nutlin-3a-loaded ethosome-based medicinal products for cutaneous use.

Primary sebaceous and lipid-rich carcinomas are extremely rare. Sebaceous carcinoma cells are large and oval with light, partially vacuolated cytoplasm. The second population consists of cells located mainly on the peripheral parts of tumour beaches. Those cells are of smaller calibre and are fusiform in appearance. Lipid- rich carcinoma is made up of multiple cell populations. The predominant cell type is with a distinctly light, vacuolated, and partially optically clear cytoplasm. Pathohistological analysis may be overlapping. On one side there is a tumour with a relatively excellent prognosis, and on the other, a highly aggressive carcinoma with a tendency for early metastases.

A 70-year-old African American female with a history of stage IV mycosis fungoides in remission presented with a gradually enlarging, red, ulcerated nodule on her right dorsal hand. The lesion was biopsied, and it showed intraepidermal proliferation with cytologic atypia and increased vasculature in the papillary dermis. Immunohistochemical staining indicated a yes-associated protein 1 (YAP1) rearrangement, confirmed by RNA sequencing, revealing a YAP1::MAML2 (mastermind-like transcriptional coactivator 2) fusion. The lesion was diagnosed as an eccrine porocarcinoma (EPC). The occurrence of EPCs following radiotherapy or trauma has been documented. This case highlights the importance of considering EPCs in patients with extensive skin treatments and immunosuppression history.

Acquired epidermodysplasia verruciformis is a rare condition, secondary to a state of acquired immunosuppression and is characterized by a susceptibility to infection by human papillomavirus of the beta genus, which carries an increased risk of developing non-melanoma skin cancer. We report the case of a 39-year-old woman receiving a kidney transplant, treated with prednisone and tacrolimus, who after starting immunosuppressive therapy developed papules and warty plaques in the inguinal region. A skin biopsy was performed that was consistent with epidermodysplasia verruciformis, so it was decided to adjust immunosuppressive therapy to everolimus, which achieved a reduction in lesions. There are only 13 other cases of acquired epidermodysplasia verruciformis in kidney transplant recipients; to our knowledge this is the first case reported in Chile.

According to official statistics, cancer remains the main reason of death and over 50% of patients with cancer receive radiotherapy. However, adverse consequences after radiation exposure like radiation-induced skin reactions (RISR) have negative or even fatal impact on patients' quality of life (QoL). In this review we summarize the mechanisms and managements of RISRs, a process that involve a variety of extracellular and intracellular signals, among which oxidative stress (OS) are now commonly believed to be the initial part of the occurrence of all types of RISRs. As for the management of RISRs, traditional treatments have been widely used but without satisfying outcomes while some promising therapeutic strategies related to OS still need further researches. In the context we discuss how OS leads to the happening of RISRs of different types, hoping it can shed some light on the exploration of new countermeasures.

<b>Introduction:</b> The retina is a light-sensitive tissue, and intensive light exposure leads to light-induced retinal damage. It is pointed out that photoreceptor damage is responsible for the decrease in retina function. The aim of this study was to detect the main genes and biological terms which are involved in retinal response to intensive light exposure. <b>Methods:</b> The effect of intensive light on the mouse retina function was searched in the Gene Expression Omnibus (GEO) database. The data of GSE22818 were assessed by the GEO2R program. The significant differentially expressed genes (DEGs) were determined and evaluated via directed protein-protein interaction (PPI) network analysis. The critical significant DEGs were enriched via gene ontology analysis to find the related biological processes, molecular function, and biochemical pathways. <b>Results:</b> Data analysis indicates that the high intensity of light induces gene expression alteration in the retina. 105 significant DEGs were identified as the main responsive genes to light damage in the retina. STAT3, JUN, IL6ST, SOCS3, ATF3, JUNB, FOSL1, CCL2, ICAM1, FGF2, AGT, MYC, LIF, CISH, and EGR1 were introduced as the critical affected genes. STAT3, JUN, IL6ST, SOCS3, and ATF3 and "Positive regulation of the receptor signaling pathway via JAK-STAT" were highlighted as the key elements of molecular events. <b>Conclusion:</b> It can be concluded that regulation of the key DEGs and the dependent biological terms can effectively provide tools to prevent the development of light-induced retinal damage.

The UAE harbors a rich diversity of wild medicinal plants, such as Calotropis procera (CP), that are renowned for their extensive use in traditional medicine due to their abundance of bioactive phytochemicals. Zinc and iron metals possess significant pharmacological effects including antioxidant and anticancer properties. In this study, nanoparticles (NPs) containing zinc and iron were green synthesized utilizing ethanolic and aqueous extracts of CP aerial parts. UV-Vis spectra revealed absorption peaks around 270-275 nm, while FT-IR analysis confirmed successful coating of the NPs with plant's phytochemicals. SEM/EDX analysis indicated a more potent reducing effect of the aqueous extract, whereas the alcoholic extract demonstrated more effective coating of the NPs. DLS showed monodispersed NPs with average sizes of 32.67-202 nm. The alcoholic extract-based zinc and iron NPs exhibited the highest phenolic and flavonoid contents (51.06 ± 2.82 µg of GAE/mg of DW and 66.26 ± 1.12 µg of Qu/mg of DW, respectively) and the strongest antioxidant effect against ABTS and DPPH radicals (IC<sub>50</sub> = 52.81 and 148.46 µg/mL, respectively). The aqueous extract-based zinc NPs demonstrated the greatest cytotoxicity against A-431 cell lines (IC<sub>50</sub> = 188.97 µg/mL). The findings highlight promising potential of these sustainable materials for therapeutic applications, indicating a need for continued research and development in this area.

The Activin-A precursor dimer can be cleaved by furin, but how this proteolytic maturation is regulated in vivo and how it facilitates access to signaling receptors is unclear. Here, analysis in a syngeneic melanoma grafting model shows that without furin coexpression, Activin-A failed to accelerate tumor growth, correlating with failure of one or both subunits to undergo cleavage in signal-sending cells, even though compensatory processing by host cells nonetheless sustained elevated circulating Activin-A levels. In reporter assays, furin-independent cleavage of one subunit enabled juxtacrine Activin-A signaling, whereas completion of proteolytic maturation by coexpressed furin or by recipient cells stimulated contact-independent activity, crosstalk with BMP receptors, and signal inhibition by follistatin. Mechanistically, Activin-A processing was modulated by allosteric disulfide bonds flanking the furin site. Disruption of these disulfide linkages with the prodomain enabled Activin-A binding to cognate type II receptors independently of proteolytic maturation. Stepwise proteolytic maturation is a novel mechanism to control Activin-A protein interactions and signaling.

The transcription factor NRF2 plays an important role in many biological processes and is a promising therapeutic target for many disease states. NRF2 is highly expressed in the skin and is known to play a critical role in diabetic wound healing, a serious disease process for which treatment options are limited. However, many existing NRF2 activators display off-target effects due to their electrophilic mechanism, underscoring the need for alternative approaches. In this work, we investigated two recently described non-electrophilic NRF2 activators, ADJ-310 and PRL-295, and demonstrated their efficacy in vitro and in vivo in human keratinocytes and Lepr<sup>db/db</sup> diabetic mice. We also compared the downstream targets of PRL-295 to those of the widely used electrophilic NRF2 activator CDDO-Me by RNA sequencing. Both ADJ-310 and PRL-295 maintained human keratinocyte cell viability at increasing concentrations and maintained or improved cell proliferation over time. Both compounds also increased cell migration, improving in vitro wound closure. ADJ-310 and PRL-295 enhanced the oxidative stress response in vitro, and RNA-sequencing data showed that PRL-295 activated NRF2 with a narrower transcriptomic effect than CDDO-Me. In vivo, both ADJ-310 and PRL-295 improved wound healing in Lepr<sup>db/db</sup> diabetic mice and upregulated known downstream NRF2 target genes in treated tissue. These results highlight the non-electrophilic compounds ADJ-310 and PRL-295 as effective, innovative tools for investigating the function of NRF2. These compounds directly address the need for alternative NRF2 activators and offer a new approach to studying the role of NRF2 in human disease and its potential as a therapeutic across multiple disease states.

Lentigo Maligna (LM) arises on chronically-sun damaged skin and can have extensive subclinical spread, often in functionally and cosmetically challenging areas. This two-part continuing medical education (CME) series reviews LM. Part I reviews epidemiology, risk factors, clinical presentation, diagnostic tools, biopsy technique, and histopathology of LM. Part II reviews both surgical and non-surgical treatment options. Surgical approaches - including conventional excision, Mohs micrographic surgery, and staged excision - remain first-line therapy to achieve cure. Some patients may be poor surgical candidates or elect for alternative treatments. Non-surgical modalities, such as topical and radiation therapy, are also reviewed. Finally, surveillance recommendations are discussed.

This case report discusses a 12-year-old West Highland White Terrier presented to the veterinary clinic with reverse sneezing and oral dysphagia. The endoscopic examination of the upper respiratory tract revealed a mass in the area of the right tonsil. Histologic examination confirmed the diagnosis of a malignant pilomatrixoma. The dog underwent surgical cytoreduction, followed by radiation therapy. After the treatment, the dog was free of clinical signs for 154 days and in good general condition. Due to recurrence of signs and the suspicion of clinically overt metastases in the mandibular lymph nodes, the dog was euthanized 261 days after the diagnosis. This is the first report of a malignant pilomatrixoma in the tonsillar area that has been treated with cytoreductive surgery and radiation therapy.

Skin lesions encompass a variety of skin abnormalities, including skin diseases that affect structure and function, and skin cancer, which can be fatal and arise from abnormal cell growth. Early detection of lesions and automated prediction is crucial, yet accurately identifying responsible regions post-dominance dispersion remains a challenge in current studies. Thus, we propose a Convolutional Neural Network (CNN)-based approach employing a Customized Transfer Learning (CTL) model and Triple Attention (TA) modules in conjunction with Ensemble Learning (EL). While Ensemble Learning has become an integral component of both Machine Learning (ML) and Deep Learning (DL) methodologies, a specific technique ensuring optimal allocation of weights for each model's prediction is currently lacking. Consequently, the primary objective of this study is to introduce a novel method for determining optimal weights to aggregate the contributions of models for achieving desired outcomes. We term this approach "Information Gain Proportioned Averaging (IGPA)," further refining it to "Multi-Level Information Gain Proportioned Averaging (ML-IGPA)," which specifically involves the utilization of IGPA at multiple levels. Empirical evaluation of the HAM1000 dataset demonstrates that our approach achieves 94.93% accuracy with ML-IGPA, surpassing state-of-the-art methods. Given previous studies' failure to elucidate the exact focus of black-box models on specific regions, we utilize the Gradient Class Activation Map (GradCAM) to identify responsible regions and enhance explainability. Our study enhances both accuracy and interpretability, facilitating early diagnosis and preventing the consequences of neglecting skin lesion detection, thereby addressing issues related to time, accessibility, and costs.

The serine-/arginine-rich splicing factor 2 (SRSF2) plays pivotal roles in pre-mRNA processing and gene transcription. Recurrent mutations, particularly a proline-to-histidine substitution at position 95 (P95H), are common in neoplastic diseases. Here, we assess SRSF2's diverse functions in squamous cell carcinoma. We show that SRSF2 deletion or homozygous P95H mutation both cause extensive DNA damage leading to cell-cycle arrest. Mechanistically, SRSF2 regulates efficient bi-directional transcription of DNA replication and repair genes, independent from its function in splicing. Further, SRSF2 haploinsufficiency induces DNA damage without halting the cell cycle. Exposing mouse skin to tumor-promoting carcinogens enhances the clonal expansion of heterozygous Srsf2 P95H epidermal cells but unexpectedly inhibits tumor formation. To survive carcinogen treatment, Srsf2 P95H<sup>+/-</sup> cells undergo substantial transcriptional rewiring and restore bi-directional gene expression. Thus, our study underscores SRSF2's importance in regulating transcription to orchestrate the cell cycle and the DNA damage response.

MAIT cells are innate-like T cells residing in barrier tissues such as the lung, skin, and intestine. Both the semi-invariant T cell receptor of MAIT cells and the restricting element MR1 are deeply conserved across mammals, indicating non-redundant functions linked to antigenic specificity. MAIT cells across species concomitantly express cytotoxicity and tissue-repair genes, suggesting versatile functions. Accordingly, MAIT cells contribute to antibacterial responses as well as to the repair of damaged barrier tissues. MAIT cells recognize riboflavin biosynthetic pathway-derived metabolites, which rapidly cross epithelial barriers to be presented by antigen-presenting cells. Changes in gut ecology during intestinal inflammation drive the expansion of strong riboflavin and MAIT ligand producers. Thus, MAIT cells may enable real-time surveillance of microbiota dysbiosis across intact epithelia and provide rapid and context-dependent responses. Here, we discuss recent findings regarding the origin and regulation of MAIT ligands and the role of MAIT cells in barrier tissues. We speculate on the potential reasons for MAIT cell conservation during evolution.

Actinic keratosis (AK) is a common cutaneous keratinocyte dysplasia characterized by the abnormal proliferation of atypical epidermal keratinocytes; an area that presents photoinduced subclinical changes, similar to those found in AKs, on the periphery of clinically visible AKs is defined as a field of cancerization. Its treatment, rather than a treatment aimed at the single lesion, is more recommended as it manages the subclinical damage and prevents the onset of a possible squamous cell carcinoma. Among the field therapies, tirbanibulin has recently been introduced with an innovative mechanism of action that determines cellular apoptosis and consequently a poor local inflammatory reaction. We present the case of an 82-year-old patient, known for previous removals of squamous cell carcinomas at the vertex and currently suffering from a large field of cancerization in the nose and scalp, to whom we proposed a sequential treatment with three cycles of tirbanibulin in contiguous areas. The treatment was well tolerated and allowed complete clearance to be obtained on the nose and > 95% on the scalp, with a reduction of the Actinic Keratosis Area and Severity Index (AKASI) from 9.4 to 1.4.

The recent guidelines issued by the European Society of Hypertension reaffirmed that the degree of control of hypertension remains suboptimal worldwide. In order to increase the proportion of well-controlled patients, in addition to nonpharmacological measures, it is necessary to improve the implementation of drug therapy in the clinical practice as much as possible. Initial therapy should almost always be based on the combination, free or fixed, between ACE inhibitor drugs, or direct angiotensin II inhibitors ('sartans') and diuretics (thiazide or thiazide-like) or calcium channel blockers at the maximum recommended and well-tolerated dose. The combination of the thiazide-like diuretic indapamide with the ACE inhibitor delapril has shown, based on numerous clinical trials and meta-analyses, very good results in terms of antihypertensive efficacy, tolerability, and prevention or regression of organ damage. Indapamide is a thiazide-like diuretic also endowed with direct vasodilator effect and long duration of action. A meta-analysis of 19 randomized clinical trials demonstrated a greater reduction in the incidence of cardiac events, stroke and heart failure with thiazide-like diuretics than with thiazide diuretics. Delapril is a non-sulfhydryl ACE-inhibitor with high affinity for converting enzyme at the cardiac, pulmonary, and peripheral vascular levels. Being strongly lipophilic, delapril inhibits the ACE enzyme at the tissue level more potently than other ACE inhibitors. A peculiar feature of delapril is its weak bradykinin-enhancing effect due to its higher affinity for the C site than the N site of ACE, resulting in a lower incidence of cough and angioneurotic edema compared with other ACE inhibitors. In some meta-analyses, the pressor reduction was statistically, greater with the delapril-indapamide combination than with combinations between hydrochlorothiazide and ACE inhibitors. The combination consists of divisible tablets containing 30 mg delapril and 2.5 mg indapamide, and its pharmacological and clinical properties are not affected by simultaneous food intake. The antihypertensive efficacy of the combination, as well as its components, persists for the entire 24 hours. The recent alarming reports on the incidence of skin cancer during treatment with hydrochlorothiazide should also be a guide in clinical practice toward the preferential choice of a thiazide-like diuretic such as chlorthalidone or indapamide to replace hydrochlorothiazide.

Iran is one of the endemic regions of cutaneous leishmaniasis (CL) caused by <i>Leishmania major</i>. There is no protective vaccine available against CL available, and the most effective strategy is a definitive treatment. Topical medications can be an excellent option for this purpose. Tamoxifen, a cancer control drug, has properties such as inducing cell apoptosis and anti-parasitic activity, which can be useful in controlling eukaryotic parasites such as <i>Leishmania</i>. The present study was conducted to investigate this theory in experimental CL caused by <i>L. major</i>. Forty female BALB/c mice aged 4 to 6 weeks were infected by injecting 1 × 10<sup>6</sup> <i>L. major</i> metacyclics (MRHO/IR/75/ER) in the base of the tail. After the appearance of <i>Leishmania</i> nodules, mice were divided into five test and control groups. Two drug formulations were used: tamoxifen 1% in ethanol and tamoxifen citrate ointment 0.1%. The effectiveness of each formula was evaluated by determining the mean size of the ulcers and parasite burden after a 28-day treatment period. Both formulations showed reduced ulcer mean sizes. However, only the tamoxifen citrate ointment group demonstrated a statistically significant reduction (<i>P</i> = 0.049). The parasite burden decreased by 40.83% for the ointment group and 33.67% for the ethanol solution. Other control groups showed lesser reductions. This study partially demonstrated the effectiveness of topical tamoxifen on CL lesions in a murine model. It can provide a basis for further research on the therapeutic effects of different topical tamoxifen formulations.

Radiation therapy (RT) is a cornerstone in cancer treatment (used in 50% of cases), yet challenges persist because damage to normal tissue through direct impact of radiation or bystander effects is inevitable. Injury of macrovessels by RT manifests as obstructive disease, which is akin to atherosclerotic disease. Historically observed in coronary arteries of patients treated for breast cancer and lymphoma, it also affects patients receiving contemporary therapy for lung and chest cancers. Moreover, radiation at various sites can lead to peripheral vascular disease. An aspect of radiation-induced injury that has received little attention is microvascular injury, which typically results from damage to the endothelium and is considered the primary driver of RT-induced toxicity in the skin, kidney, and brain. This review delves into the clinical manifestations of RT-induced vascular disease, signaling pathways, cellular targets affected by radiation injury, and preclinical models of RT-induced vascular injury. The goal is to inspire the development of innovative strategies to prevent RT-related cardiovascular disease.

Carney Complex (CNC) is a rare syndrome characterized by spotty skin pigmentation and multiple neoplasms, notably cardiac myxomas, schwannomas, and endocrine tumours. It is often inherited in an autosomal dominant manner with <i>PRKAR1A</i> gene mutations found in the majority of cases. Male infertility is established as part of the CNC phenotype and is largely associated with Large cell calcifying Sertoli cell tumours (LCCSCT). We describe a case of a 30-year-old male patient with Carney Complex, presenting with severe oligoasthenozoospermia and primary pigmented nodular adrenocortical disease (PPNAD). During follow-up consults, the severe oligozoospermia and impaired semen motility persisted and the patient was also diagnosed with a recurring cardiac myxoma and LCCSCT. Molecular testing identified a novel <i>PRKAR1A</i> mutation involving a deletion of exons 4 to 7. Our findings suggest this mutation causes <i>PRKAR1A</i> haploinsufficiency, which may be directly linked to male infertility, irrespective of the presence of testicular tumours. Accordingly, in male patients with CNC, detection of a <i>PRKAR1A</i> gene mutation may serve as a predictive marker for infertility. This case report illustrates the importance of early consideration and management of infertility in male patients diagnosed with CNC.

Skin wound healing is a complicated biological process that mainly occurs in response to injury, burns, or diabetic ulcers. It can also be triggered by other conditions such as dermatitis and melanoma-induced skin cancer. Delayed healing or non-healing after skin injury presents an important clinical issue; therefore, further explorations into the occurrence and development of wound healing at the cellular and molecular levels are necessary. Single-cell sequencing (SCS) is used to sequence and analyze the genetic messages of a single cell. Furthermore, SCS can accurately detect cell expression and gene sequences. The use of SCS technology has resulted in the emergence of new concepts pertaining to wound healing, making it an important tool for studying the relevant mechanisms and developing treatment strategies. This article discusses the application value of SCS technology, the effects of the latest research on skin wound healing, and the value of SCS technology in clinical applications. Using SCS to determine potential biomarkers for wound repair will serve to accelerate wound healing, reduce scar formation, optimize drug delivery, and facilitate personalized treatments.

Deep learning technology is widely used in the field of medical imaging. Among them, Convolutional Neural Networks (CNNs) are the most widely used, and the quality of the dataset is crucial for the training of CNN diagnostic models, as mislabeled data can easily affect the accuracy of the diagnostic models. However, due to medical specialization, it is difficult for non-professional physicians to judge mislabeled medical image data. In this paper, we proposed a new framework named medical image dataset cleaning (MIDC), whose main contribution is to improve the quality of public datasets by automatically cleaning up mislabeled data. The main innovations of MIDC are: firstly, the framework innovatively utilizes multiple public datasets of the same disease, relying on different CNNs to automatically recognize images and remove mislabeled data to complete the data cleaning process. This process does not rely on annotations from professional physicians and does not require additional datasets with more reliable labels; Secondly, a novel grading rule is designed to divide the datasets into high-accuracy datasets and low-accuracy datasets, based on which the data cleaning process can be performed; Thirdly, a novel data cleaning module based on CNN is designed to identify and clean low-accuracy datasets by using high-accuracy datasets. In the experiments, the validity of the proposed framework was verified by using four kinds of datasets diabetic retinal, viral pneumonia, breast tumor, and skin cancer, with results showing an increase in the average diagnostic accuracy from 71.18 % to 85.13 %, 82.50 %to 93.79 %, 85.59 %to 93.45 %, and 84.55 %to 94.21 %, respectively. The proposed data cleaning framework MIDC could better help physicians diagnose diseases based on the dataset with mislabeled data.

BACKGROUND Choroidal melanoma is the most common primary intraocular tumor in adults. Most primary choroidal melanomas are unilateral and unifocal. Bilateral primary choroidal melanomas are considered to be a rare occurrence. Ocular melanocytosis, especially when it is bilateral, increases the incidence of bilateral primary choroidal melanoma. CASE REPORT Our patient was a 78-year-old man who presented to the Emergency Department with floaters and a reduction in visual acuity in his left eye, with an onset 7 days prior. Upon macroscopic examination, the patient displayed bilateral pigmentation on the sclera, which was consistent with ocular melanocytosis. Fundoscopy revealed a large choroidal melanoma, situated superior and nasally of the posterior pole of the left eye, and a smaller choroidal melanoma, located inferonasally, in the right eye. Ultrasonography, optical coherence tomography, fundus autofluorescence, fundus fluorescein, and indocyanine green angiographies were performed, confirming the diagnosis of simultaneous bilateral primary choroidal melanomas. CONCLUSIONS This was a rare case of bilateral ocular melanocytosis, which increased the probability of bilateral primary choroidal melanoma. To the best of our knowledge, this is the first case in Greece to be reported. This case illustrates the necessity of always examining the fellow eye on initial presentation and over a long follow-up. We should always bear in mind that choroidal melanoma can be a bilateral disease, albeit very rarely.

Multiomic profiling of single cells by sequencing is a powerful technique for investigating cellular diversity. Existing droplet-based microfluidic methods produce many cell-free droplets, underutilizing bead barcodes and reagents. Combinatorial indexing on microplates is more efficient for barcoding but labor-intensive. Here we present Overloading And unpacKing (OAK), which uses a droplet-based barcoding system for initial compartmentalization followed by a second aliquoting round to achieve combinatorial indexing. We demonstrate OAK's versatility with single-cell RNA sequencing as well as paired single-nucleus RNA sequencing and accessible chromatin profiling. We further showcase OAK's performance on complex samples, including differentiated bronchial epithelial cells and primary retinal tissue. Finally, we examine transcriptomic responses of over 400,000 melanoma cells to a RAF inhibitor, belvarafenib, discovering a rare resistant cell population (0.12%). OAK's ultra-high throughput, broad compatibility, high sensitivity, and simplified procedures make it a powerful tool for large-scale molecular analysis, even for rare cells.

Early recognition of skin cancer reduces associated morbidity and improves survival. Most patients with suspicious skin lesions present to family medicine physicians. We aimed to evaluate the self-reported competency of family medicine residents in performing skin cancer examination (SCE) and assess the impact of different factors on their competency. All family medicine residents completed a previously validated questionnaire aimed at evaluating their skin cancer examination competency in this cross-sectional study. In total, 250 residents participated in this study. More than half of the residents never had a rotation in dermatology or received training under the supervision of a dermatologist. Approximately 70%, 72%, and 77% of residents had not observed SCE, received SCE training, and performed SCE, respectively. Although most residents were aware of the risk factors for skin cancer and the ABCD acronym for melanoma, only one out of ten residents screened their patients for these factors, enquired about changes in skin lesions, and personally practiced SCE. Only 16% of family medicine residents consider themselves competent in performing SCE. Training under the guidance of a dermatologist, SCE training, evaluating patients for cancer risk factors and any changes in moles, and SCE practice on personal level were associated with SCE competency. Multivariate analysis showed a significant association between the frequency of observing SCE and competency in performing SCE. Only 16% of family medicine residents considered themselves competent in performing SCE. The frequency of observation of SCE during residency was a significant predictor of self-reported competency in performing SCE.

Early recognition of skin cancer reduces associated morbidity and improves survival. Most patients with suspicious skin lesions present to family medicine physicians. We aimed to evaluate the self-reported competency of family medicine residents in performing skin cancer examination (SCE) and assess the impact of different factors on their competency. All family medicine residents completed a previously validated questionnaire aimed at evaluating their skin cancer examination competency in this cross-sectional study. In total, 250 residents participated in this study. More than half of the residents never had a rotation in dermatology or received training under the supervision of a dermatologist. Approximately 70%, 72%, and 77% of residents had not observed SCE, received SCE training, and performed SCE, respectively. Although most residents were aware of the risk factors for skin cancer and the ABCD acronym for melanoma, only one out of ten residents screened their patients for these factors, enquired about changes in skin lesions, and personally practiced SCE. Only 16% of family medicine residents consider themselves competent in performing SCE. Training under the guidance of a dermatologist, SCE training, evaluating patients for cancer risk factors and any changes in moles, and SCE practice on personal level were associated with SCE competency. Multivariate analysis showed a significant association between the frequency of observing SCE and competency in performing SCE. Only 16% of family medicine residents considered themselves competent in performing SCE. The frequency of observation of SCE during residency was a significant predictor of self-reported competency in performing SCE.

Lentigo maligna (LM) is an increasingly common subtype of melanoma, presenting as a slow-growing tan-brown macule or patch with irregular borders arising on chronically solar-damaged skin. This two-part continuing medical education (CME) series provides an overview of LM. Part I reviews LM's epidemiology, risk factors, and clinical presentation. Clinical tools to aid in diagnosis - such as dermoscopy and reflectance confocal microscopy - are discussed, as well as optimal biopsy strategies. Histopathology and current understanding of molecular underpinnings are also reviewed. Management of LM presents unique challenges given a predilection for subclinical spread on functionally and cosmetically sensitive areas such as the face. Part II reviews the two pillars of management including both surgical and non-surgical treatment options and surveillance.

A series of novel modifications were performed at the N(4) position of 5-hydroxyisatin thiosemicarbazone (TSC). The structure-activity approach is applied to design and synthesize derivatives by condensing thiosemicarbazides with 5-hydroxy isatin. The TSCs were characterized by various spectroscopic techniques viz. FTIR, <sup>1</sup>H NMR, <sup>13</sup>C NMR, UV-Vis, HRMS data, CHN elemental analysis, and single crystal X-ray diffraction. Biological evaluation of the synthesized compounds revealed the anticancer potency of the TSC analogues against breast cancer (MD-AMD-231, MCF-7), lung cancer (A549, NCI-H460), prostate cancer (PC3), and skin cancer (A431). The molecules, L2, L3, and L6 showed activity in the micromolar range (IC<sub>50</sub>; 0.19-2.19 μM). L6 exhibited the highest potency against skin cancer A431 cell line, with an IC<sub>50</sub> of 0.19 μM compared to 1.8 μM with triapine and showed low toxicity against PNT-2 cells with an SI index of >100 μM. The mechanistic study revealed that L6 inhibited cancer cell proliferation, colony formation, and 3-dimensional spheroid formation by targeting the Ras/MAPK axis. It induced DNA damage and impaired DNA damage repair machinery, which led to the accumulation of DSB. Also, it lowered the ERK1/2 expression, which affected the caspase 3 activity and showed higher binding affinity compared to the FDA-approved drug Lenalidomide in molecular docking studies. Our findings demonstrated the possible future anticancer drug potency of L6 in the skin cancer A431 cells.

Skin cancer is recognized as one of the most perilous diseases globally. In the field of medical image classification, precise identification of early-stage skin lesions is imperative for accurate diagnosis. However, deploying these algorithms on low-cost devices and attaining high-efficiency operation with minimal energy consumption poses a formidable challenge due to their intricate computational demands. This study proposes a lightweight hardware design based on a convolutional neural network (CNN) for real-time processing of skin disease classifiers on portable devices. Our skin cancer recognition processor utilizes an optimally parallel designed processing engine (PE) for global computation, which greatly reduces hardware resource utilization by multiplexing of computational unit circuits. In addition, a design approach that provides loop unrolling effectively reduces the number of data accesses, thereby reducing computational complexity and logic resource requirements. The hardware circuits in this design perform data inference in convolutional, pooling, and fully connected layers based on 16-bit floating-point numbers. Evaluation of the HAM10000 database dataset shows that the architecture achieves an average classification accuracy of 97.8 %. We are the first to implement an all-hardware FPGA-based skin cancer detection platform that offers a 3.5x speedup in recognition compared to existing skin cancer accelerators at 50 MHz while consuming only 0.48 W of power. The implementation of this hardware architecture meets the major constraints of portable devices, featuring low resource utilization, low power consumption, and cost-effectiveness, while still providing efficient classification and high accuracy results.

Evaluating patients with neuropathy is common, especially in elderly patients with comorbidities. Neuropathy can often be a manifestation of systemic diseases, cancer, or drug-induced toxicity; thus, the differential diagnosis is challenging. The mechanism of nerve damage can vary significantly, affecting the patient's therapeutic management. We describe a 66-year-old woman who presented with subacute and progressively worsening motor weakness of the lower extremities with bilateral numbness and tingling after a recent respiratory tract infection. Her medical history included diabetes mellitus and Sezary syndrome in the context of cutaneous T-cell lymphoma. This case emphasizes the significance of a detailed evaluation and considering clinical signs and electrophysiologic findings in patients with neuropathy and a history of hematologic malignancy. Early recognition and management can be crucial in shaping the clinical course of the disease.

Modern skin cancer pathogenesis includes new concepts such as nitroso photocarcinogenesis and nitroso-mediated photosensitivity. The above 2 new concepts are in all likelihood also modeled/determined by photocarcinogens known as nitrosamines and/or NDSRIs available as contaminants in many drugs worldwide. The phototoxicity of nitrosamines is a known nonspecific property of them, for which evidence exists as far back as 1972. Current data from 2023/2024 are completely supportive of nitrosamines identified in drugs, with genotoxicity and phototoxicity proven once again. Regulators' data on polycontamination of a drug with up to several nitrosamines at the same time are of concern. The carcinogens/mutagens in question could also act as bi-/polycarcinogens depending on whether they are metabolized or not. Permanent combined intake of potentially/actually nitrosamine-contaminated drugs appears to be key in the subsequent development of multiple cutaneous tumours, according to new findings in the literature. The localization of these tumours in areas exposed to intense solar radiation could also be seen as indirectly pointing to the presence of certain photosensitisers in the human body. Some of these nitrosamines are photocarcinogens and human carcinogens at the same time. The identification and specification of each of these genotoxic photosensitizers in drugs has yet to be further investigated in detail. The FDA identifies them currently as substances with carcinogenic potency. The clinicopathologic correlations published to date within the intake of potentially contaminated drugs are indicative of 1) the need to redefine skin cancer pathogenesis and 2) the subsequent possible introduction of complete elimination regimens against nitrosamines. We inform about another polymedication intake in a patient with arterial hypertension and diabetes mellitus, which includes the following medications: gliclazide 60 mg once daily and metformin hydrochloride 850 mg once daily, both since 24 years ; sotalol hydrochloride 80 mg since 2 years; bisoprolol fumarate 5 mg since 17 years; candesartan cilexetil/hydrochlorothiazide 16 mg/ 12.5 mg since 2 years; and lercanidipine hydrochloride 20 mg also since 2 years. Within this intake, it is notable that 1) all 6 of these drugs appear in the databases for possible availability as nitroso compounds, and that 2) this is the seventh consecutive keratinocyte tumor treated surgically (in this period). In the presented patient, surgical treatment was performed using a shark pedicle island flap for BCC of the nose, which is an ideal option for tumors with location in the alar or periralar area. An optimal postoperative outcome was achieved. This article focuses on the possible role of drug-mediated photo nitrosogenesis/ carcinogenesis of skin cancer by briefly reviewing and analyzing the available literature to date.

Laryngeal cancer, a common malignant respiratory tumor, is primarily treated through surgery. However, challenges such as recurrence, metastasis, and drug resistance persist. In recent years, multifunctional drug delivery systems (DDS) based on nanoparticles have shown great potential in improving drug loading and release. We developed a biocompatible core-shell nanoparticle system with a zinc-based metal-organic framework (MOF) as the core, named CP1. The shell, composed of polyethyleneimine (PEI), folic acid, and calcium carbonate, forms a composite called CaCO<sub>3</sub>-PEI-FA. This system enhances biocompatibility and increases the efficacy of biomedical applications. Encapsulating CP1 within the CaCO<sub>3</sub>-PEI-FA shell allows for the targeted delivery of the anticancer drug doxorubicin (DOX) to laryngeal cancer cells (Hep-2), resulting in the CaCO<sub>3</sub>-PEI-FA@CP1@DOX system. The CaCO<sub>3</sub>-PEI-FA composite exhibits strong fluorescence with a peak around 350 nm, confirming successful synthesis and demonstrating its potential as a bioimaging probe. Importantly, the nanoparticle system without DOX showed low toxicity to normal human skin fibroblasts (HSF). In vitro cytology experiments revealed a 38% inhibition rate of Hep-2 cells after 24 h, highlighting the nanocomposite's significant potential in inhibiting laryngeal cancer cell proliferation and inducing apoptosis, underscoring its promise in targeted laryngeal cancer therapy.

Nectin-4 is a cell-adhesion molecule expressed at various levels in many solid tumors, including urothelial cancer. As means to reduce on-target skin toxicity observed with enfortumab vedotin, an anti-nectin-4-MMAE ADC approved for patients with advanced urothelial cancer, 15A7.5, an anti-nectin-4 monoclonal antibody that exhibited differential nectin-4 binding between tumor and primary keratinocytes, was selected for the development of ETx-22. Exatecan, a topoisomerase I inhibitor, was chosen as payload. ETx-22 ADC induced rapid and long-lasting tumor regression in various patient derived xenograft models expressing low to high levels of nectin-4 and also in MonoMethyl Auristatin-E resistant xenograft model. ETx-22 has a highest non severely toxic dose of over 20 mg/kg in non-human primates without signs of important skin toxicity. ETx-22 represents a valuable therapy, for the treatment of patients with nectin-4 expressing tumors including those that have become resistant to enfortumab vedotin treatment.

Skin aging is driven by a complex set of cellular pathways. Among these, epigenetic mechanisms have garnered particular attention, because of their sensitivity to environmental and lifestyle factors. DNA methylation represents the longest known and best understood epigenetic mechanism. We explain how DNA methylation might function as an interface between the environment and the genome of human skin. Exposures to different environmental factors and lifestyles are known to modulate age-related methylation patterns, as illustrated by their effect on DNA methylation clocks. Human skin provides a particularly well-suited tissue for understanding age-related methylation changes and it has been shown recently that modulation of DNA methylation can induce skin rejuvenation. We explain how the use of mildly demethylating agents can be safeguarded to ensure the specific removal of age-related DNA methylation changes. We also identify important areas of future research, leading to a deeper understanding of the mechanisms that drive epigenetic aging and to the development of further refined intervention strategies.

Postsurgical pyoderma gangrenosum (PSPG) is a rare, ulcerative skin condition that presents a diagnostic challenge due to its similar presentation to infectious etiologies in the postsurgical period-often leading to gratuitous and unnecessary surgery and antibiotic use. We report a 37-year-old female with breast cancer who received neoadjuvant chemotherapy and immunotherapy and underwent bilateral skin-sparing mastectomies who developed delayed bilateral mastectomy skin flap necrosis secondary to PSPG. This case had rare factors associated with the development of PSPG such as preoperative systemic therapy and a familial component. This case underscores the importance of early recognition of this rare disease and appropriate management of PSPG to prevent unnecessary interventions and ensure an optimal outcome.

Although lenalidomide is an essential treatment for multiple myeloma (MM), skin rashes are a common adverse event. This retrospective study aimed to examine the association between skin rash development during lenalidomide treatment and the prognosis of relapsed/refractory MM. All patients who received lenalidomide at 10 hospitals between July 2009 and December 2015 were included in the study. The relationship of skin rash development with disease progression and survival was evaluated. Multivariate analysis was performed to identify factors affecting disease progression or survival, including skin rash. Of the 245 patients analyzed, 70 developed skin rashes. The median progression-free survival (PFS) of patients with skin rashes was 22.4 months, whereas the median PFS for patients who did not develop skin rashes was 10.5 months (p = 0.003). The median overall survival for patients with and without skin rash was 42.6 and 24.6 months, respectively (p = 0.013). Multivariate regression analysis showed that skin rash was an independent prognostic factor for PFS (p = 0.009). In this study, patients with skin rashes during lenalidomide treatment had significantly better PFS than those without such symptoms, indicating that lenalidomide-associated skin rashes may be a predictor of clinical outcomes in patients with MM.

Despite advances in the treatment paradigm for patients with metastatic melanoma, melanoma brain metastasis (MBM) continues to represent a significant treatment challenge. The study of MBM is limited, in part, by shortcomings in existing preclinical models. Surgically eXplanted Organoids (SXOs) are ex vivo, three-dimensional cultures prepared from primary tissue samples with minimal processing that recapitulate genotypic and phenotypic features of parent tumors without an artificial extracellular scaffold. MBM SXOs were created by a novel protocol incorporating techniques for establishing glioma and cutaneous melanoma organoids. A BRAF<sup>V600K</sup>-mutant and BRAF-wildtype MBM sample were collected directly from the operating room. Organoids were cultured in an optimized culture medium without an artificial extracellular scaffold. Concurrently, matched patient-derived cell lines were created. Organoid growth was observed within 3-4 weeks, and MBM SXOs retained histological features of the parent tissue, including pleomorphic epithelioid cells with abundant cytoplasm, large nuclei, focal melanin accumulation, and strong SOX10 positivity. After sufficient growth, organoids could be manually parcellated to increase the number of replicates. Matched SXOs and cell lines demonstrated sensitivity to BRAF and MEK inhibitors. Further study using SXOs may improve the translational relevance of preclinical studies and enable the study of the metastatic melanoma tumor microenvironment.

Over half of all people diagnosed with cancer receive radiation therapy. Moderate to severe radiation dermatitis occurs in most human radiation patients, causing pain, aesthetic distress, and a negative impact on tumor control. No effective prevention or treatment for radiation dermatitis exists. The lack of well-characterized, clinically relevant animal models of human radiation dermatitis contributes to the absence of strategies to mitigate radiation dermatitis. Here, we establish and characterize a hairless SKH-1 mouse model of human radiation dermatitis by correlating temporal stages of clinical and pathological skin injury. We demonstrate that a single ionizing radiation treatment of 30 Gy using 6 MeV electrons induces severe clinical grade 3 peak toxicity at 12 days, defined by marked erythema, desquamation and partial ulceration, with resolution occurring by 25 days. Histopathology reveals that radiation-induced skin injury features temporally unique inflammatory changes. Upregulation of epidermal and dermal TGF-ß1 and COX-2 protein expression occurs at peak dermatitis, with sustained epidermal TGF-ß1 expression beyond resolution. Specific histopathological variables that remain substantially high at peak toxicity and early clinical resolution, including epidermal thickening, hyperkeratosis and dermal fibroplasia/fibrosis, serve as specific measurable parameters for in vivo interventional preclinical studies that seek to mitigate radiation-induced skin injury.

This study explores the impact of γ-irradiation on ethanolic extracts of Solanum aculeastrum Dunal. The anti-cancer and antimicrobial properties were investigated. The obtained results revealed that total phenol (TP) and total flavonoid (TF) of total ethanol extract (100%) (FTE) were higher than 70% ethanol extract (SE), and these contents increased after gamma radiation with 5 kGy. The results of minimum inhibitory concentration (MIC) and minimum bactericidal concentration (MBC) of the Solanum aculeastrum extracts suggested that FTE and 5 kGy-irradiated FTE can be used to control and prevent skin infections caused by MRSA and endocarditis, urinary tract infections, and prostatitis caused by Enterococcus faecalis. The FTE sample irradiated at 5 kGy showed cytotoxicity for A431 and Hct-116 cell lines similar to the control sample and higher than the toxicity revealed by the samples irradiated at 10 kGy. In normal cells (Bj-1), the toxicity was decreased after irradiation (IC50 = 31 μg/ml) compared to the non-irradiated extract (IC<sub>50</sub> = 26.1 μg/ml). Molecular docking suggested Sortase A to play a role in chlorogenic acid antibacterial activity towards Staphylococcus aureus. In conclusion, γ-irradiation can be used to enhance the phytoconstituents of Solanum aculeastrum fruit extracts and, consequently, its biological properties.

Several recent studies have investigated the validity of precautionary practices for lymphedema risk reduction after breast cancer treatment, such as avoidance of blood pressure measurements, skin puncture, blood draws, and use of prophylactic compression during air travel. Other studies have elucidated risk factors for breast cancer-related lymphedema, such as axillary lymph node dissection and skin infection (cellulitis). Combining the current evidence base with the consensus opinion of lymphatic experts assembled at the American Cancer Society/Lymphology Association of North America Summit in October 2023, updated evidence-based risk reduction recommendations are presented for those with or at risk of breast cancer-related lymphedema. Recommendation topics include prospective surveillance, patient education, individual risk factors, exercise, blood pressure, skin care and hygiene, skin puncture and blood draws, surgical procedures, prophylactic compression, air travel, and hot climate and sauna. These recommendations will help inform education and medical choices for individuals treated for breast cancer who are at risk of or diagnosed with breast cancer-related lymphedema. More high-quality evidence is required to allow the development of risk reduction recommendations for other cancer types such as gynecological, melanoma, and head and neck. It is recommended that clinicians and organizations serving people at risk of or with lymphedema align risk reduction guidelines with the evidence-based recommendations provided within this consensus document and companion manuscripts from the American Cancer Society/Lymphology Association of North America Lymphedema Summit: Forward Momentum: Future Steps in Lymphedema Management.

The eIF4F translation initiation complex plays a critical role in melanoma resistance to clinical BRAF and MEK inhibitors. In this study, we uncover a function of eIF4F in the negative regulation of the rat sarcoma (RAS)/rapidly accelerated fibrosarcoma (RAF)/mitogen-activated protein kinase kinase (MEK)/extracellular signal-regulated kinase (ERK) mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK) signaling pathway. We demonstrate that eIF4F is essential for controlling ERK signaling intensity in treatment-naïve melanoma cells harboring <i>BRAF</i> or <i>NRAS</i> mutations. Specifically, the dual-specificity phosphatase DUSP6/MKP3, which acts as a negative feedback regulator of ERK activity, requires continuous production in an eIF4F-dependent manner to limit excessive ERK signaling driven by oncogenic RAF/RAS mutations. Treatment with small-molecule eIF4F inhibitors disrupts the negative feedback control of MAPK signaling, leading to ERK hyperactivation and EGR1 overexpression in melanoma cells in vitro and in vivo. Furthermore, our quantitative analyses reveal a high spare signaling capacity in the ERK pathway, suggesting that eIF4F-dependent feedback keeps the majority of ERK molecules inactive under normal conditions. Overall, our findings highlight the crucial role of eIF4F in regulating ERK signaling flux and suggest that pharmacological eIF4F inhibitors can disrupt the negative feedback control of MAPK activity in melanomas with <i>BRAF</i> and <i>NRAS</i> activating mutations.

Skin cancer is one of the top three hazardous cancer types, and it is caused by the abnormal proliferation of tumor cells. Diagnosing skin cancer accurately and early is crucial for saving patients' lives. However, it is a challenging task due to various significant issues, including lesion variations in texture, shape, color, and size; artifacts (hairs); uneven lesion boundaries; and poor contrast. To solve these issues, this research proposes a novel Convolutional Swin Transformer (CSwinformer) method for segmenting and classifying skin lesions accurately. The framework involves phases such as data preprocessing, segmentation, and classification. In the first phase, Gaussian filtering, Z-score normalization, and augmentation processes are executed to remove unnecessary noise, re-organize the data, and increase data diversity. In the phase of segmentation, we design a new model "Swinformer-Net" integrating Swin Transformer and U-Net frameworks, to accurately define a region of interest. At the final phase of classification, the segmented outcome is input into the newly proposed module "Multi-Scale Dilated Convolutional Neural Network meets Transformer (MD-CNNFormer)," where the data samples are classified into respective classes. We use four benchmark datasets-HAM10000, ISBI 2016, PH2, and Skin Cancer ISIC for evaluation. The results demonstrated the designed framework's better efficiency against the traditional approaches. The proposed method provided classification accuracy of 98.72%, pixel accuracy of 98.06%, and dice coefficient of 97.67%, respectively. The proposed method offered a promising solution in skin lesion segmentation and classification, supporting clinicians to accurately diagnose skin cancer.

Our previous research has demonstrated that P2RY6 functions as an oncogene in DMBA/TPA-induced two-stage chemical skin carcinogenesis in mice. However, considering that human skin cancer is predominantly attributed to UV radiation from sunlight, additional investigations are needed to elucidate the role of P2RY6 in UVB-induced skin carcinogenesis. Surprisingly, we found that P2ry6-deficient mice exhibited marked promotion to UVB-induced skin papilloma formation compared with wild-type mice, suggesting its tumor-suppressive role in UVB-induced skin cancer. Additionally, a P2ry6 gene knockout promoted skin hyperplasia induced by short-term UVB irradiation, while UDP, the ligand of P2RY6, could inhibit the short-term UVB-induced increase of epiderma thickness in mouse skin. Furthermore, UVB irradiation could significantly upregulate P2RY6 expression in human and mouse skin cells. These results indicated that P2RY6 may play a crucial protective role in resisting the UVB-induced formation of skin tumors. At the molecular level, the loss of the P2RY6 gene inhibits the ubiquitination modification and expression of XPC after UVB irradiation in skin keratinocytes, resulting in the accumulation of CPDs (cyclobutane pyrimidine dimers). We have also demonstrated that P2RY6 deletion activates the PI3K/AKT signaling pathway both in vitro and in vivo. The CPD accumulation and acute inflammatory response enhanced by the loss of the P2RY6 gene can be reversed by an AKT inhibitor. These findings suggest that P2RY6 may act as a tumor suppressor in UVB-induced skin cancer by regulating the PI3K/AKT signaling pathway.

Vitamin D activates the vitamin D receptor (VDR), which dimerizes preferentially with the retinoid X receptor-α (RXRα). This heterodimer connects with genetic elements responsive to vitamin D, inhibiting or stimulating gene activity. We performed Nanostring® analysis of VDR/RXRα to compare the mRNA expression of this heterodimer and their correlated transcriptomes in non-melanoma skin cancer (basal cell carcinomas (BCC) and squamous cell carcinomas (SCC)) and melanocytic lesions (intradermal nevi (IN), and melanomas (MM)) with control skin. To evaluate VDR, RXRα and other 22 correlated genes in BCC, SCC, IN and MM, paraffin samples had their transcriptomes analysed using Nanostring®, a platform that allows multiple mRNA analyses. There were 46 samples, including 11 BCC, 10 SCC, 10 IN, 12 MM and 3 pools of control skins. Most mRNAs differed between the lesion groups and the control group. BCC and SCC NCOR2 were upregulated; in MM and IN, RXRγ was higher than in the control group. TP53, FOXO3 and MED1 showed a significant difference when we compared the BCC group to the SCC group. Melanoma and intradermal nevi differed only in AhR. VDR and RXRα were lower than the control in all groups. The panel shows a clear difference between the non-melanocytic cancers and, on the other hand, a slight difference between the melanocytic lesions. The study of vitamin D's influence through its receptor and RXRα is an exciting issue for understanding the importance of this pathway, and the present study can impact the prevention and treatment strategies, mainly in non-melanocytic tumours.

Retroperitoneal sarcoma (RPS) represents a rare and heterogeneous group of malignancies, posing significant challenges in evaluation and management. Surgery, the cornerstone of RPS treatment, critically depends on complete resection for a favorable prognosis. The extent of resection is a crucial determinant of local control and survival. This review delves into the evolution of multidisciplinary management of localized RPS, highlighting the imperative to adapt surgical strategies to tumor histology, location, and patient functional status. We explore the principles of compartmental surgery-an extended first-line approach that involves resecting adjacent viscera for wide negative margins-and its effectiveness across different histological subtypes of RPS and more limited resections for other types. Particular emphasis is placed on the heterogeneity of the disease, as various histological subtypes exhibit distinct biological behaviors. This necessitates a shift away from a one-size-fits-all treatment approach. The review analyzes the role of different surgical strategies, focusing on histological type and location. Additionally, the potential benefits of (neo)adjuvant treatments, such as radiotherapy and chemotherapy, are examined, recognizing their specific histological indications and limitations. This comprehensive review consolidates recent data on surgical strategies and complementary therapies, advocating for a personalized approach tailored to histology. As understanding of the molecular and genetic underpinnings of RPS continues to evolve, so will strategies for its effective management, underscoring the need for global collaboration among specialists in this field to enhance our collective knowledge and treatment methodologies.

Urine analysis is an attractive approach for non-invasive cancer diagnostics. In this study, a procedure for the determination of volatile organic compounds (VOCs) in human urine (acetone, acetonitrile, dimethylsulfide, dimethyl disulfide, dimethyl trisulfide, hexane, benzene, toluene, 2-butanone, 2-pentanone, pentanal) has been described including sample preparation using preconcentration of analytes in sorbent tubes followed by gas chromatography with mass spectrometry (GC-MS). Fractional factorial design and constrained surfaces design were used to optimize preconcentration of VOCs in sorbent tubes. The procedure was validated by analysis of synthetic urine containing VOC standards in the concentration range of 1-5000 ng/mL. Optimized procedure was applied to analyze urine samples of 89 healthy volunteers and 85 patients with cancer of various localizations: 42 patients with lung cancer, 25 - colon, 3 - stomach, 2 - prostate, 2 - esophageal, 2 - pancreas, 2 - kidney, 1 - ovarian, 1 - cervical, 1 - skin, 1 - liver. Concentrations of 2-butanone, 2-pentanone, acetonitrile, and benzene were found different in urine of patients with cancer and healthy individuals. Influence of cancer localization and tumor, nodule, metastasis stage on urine VOC profile was considered. The approach of using ratios of VOCs to the main ones instead of concentrations was considered. A diagnostic model based on significantly different VOC ratios was created to classify healthy individuals and patients with cancer using artificial neural network (ANN). The model was validated during construction by means of 3-fold cross-validation. Average area under receiver operating characteristic (ROC) curve on test dataset was 0.886. Average sensitivity and specificity of the created model were 91 % and 82 %.

Tissue-scale architecture and mechanical properties instruct cell behaviour under physiological and diseased conditions, but our understanding of the underlying mechanisms remains fragmentary. Here we show that extracellular matrix stiffness, spatial confinements and applied forces, including stretching of mouse skin, regulate mitochondrial dynamics. Actomyosin tension promotes the phosphorylation of mitochondrial elongation factor 1 (MIEF1), limiting the recruitment of dynamin-related protein 1 (DRP1) at mitochondria, as well as peri-mitochondrial F-actin formation and mitochondrial fission. Strikingly, mitochondrial fission is also a general mechanotransduction mechanism. Indeed, we found that DRP1- and MIEF1/2-dependent fission is required and sufficient to regulate three transcription factors of broad relevance-YAP/TAZ, SREBP1/2 and NRF2-to control cell proliferation, lipogenesis, antioxidant metabolism, chemotherapy resistance and adipocyte differentiation in response to mechanical cues. This extends to the mouse liver, where DRP1 regulates hepatocyte proliferation and identity-hallmark YAP-dependent phenotypes. We propose that mitochondria fulfil a unifying signalling function by which the mechanical tissue microenvironment coordinates complementary cell functions.

Pigmented Bowen's disease (pBD) or pigmented squamous cell cancer <i>in situ</i> is uncommon, accounting for 1.67%-5.5% of Bowen's disease lesions. It resembles pigmented actinic keratosis, seborrheic keratosis, solar lentigo, atypical nevus, or melanoma, and is ruled out through biopsy. Pigmented Bowen's disease typically presents as an asymptomatic, flat or slightly raised, scaly, and well-delineated plaque that primarily affects individuals in their sixties. Risk factors include human papilloma virus infection, arsenic exposure, sun exposure, ionizing radiation, and trauma.

A 24-year-old man with no personal or family history of atopic dermatitis or psoriasis consulted our dermatology department with a desquamating reddish lesion on the left areola and nipple. The lesion, which had developed during the past 4 months, bled occasionally and was treated initially as dermatitis with a combination of topical corticoids and antimicrobials, resulting in partial lessening of the condition. An ultrasound of the skin revealed increased blood flow within the nipple thickening of the dermis. During physical examination, we observed a well-defined desquamating plaque with a slightly shiny surface on the left nipple and areola (Figure 1).

Flos Sophorae, a traditional Chinese medicinal herb and health tea, consists of the dried flowers and buds of the Sophora japonica L. (Leguminosae). This study assesses the in vitro anticancer efficacy of Flos Sophorae flower extract (FSFE) against the human hepatocarcinoma cell line HepG2, juxtaposed with its effects on normal human liver L02 cells. Cell viability was assessed using the 3-(4,5-dimethyl-2-thiazolyl)-2,5-diphenyl tetrazolium bromide (MTT) assay to evaluate the effects of fruit skin flavonoid extract (FSFE) on cellular proliferation. The results indicated that FSFE significantly inhibited the proliferation of HepG2 liver cancer cells, with an inhibitory concentration (IC50) of 117.98 μg/mL, while having minimal effects on normal liver L02 cells. HPLC analysis identified rutin and quercetin as components of FSFE, both recognized for their antioxidant properties. The flavonoids in Flos Sophorae exhibit potent inhibitory effects on liver cancer cells, indicating potential as a natural anticancer agent. The findings support the continued development and research into the therapeutic applications of these compounds.

Neuropathic pain remains difficult to treat, with drug development hampered by an incomplete understanding of the pathogenesis of the condition, as well as a lack of biomarkers. The problem is compounded by the scarcity of relevant human peripheral tissues, including skin, nerves, and dorsal root ganglia. Efforts to obtain such samples are accelerating, increasing the need for standardisation across laboratories. In this white paper, we report on a consensus meeting attended by neuropathic pain experts, designed to accelerate protocol alignment and harmonization of studies involving relevant peripheral tissues. The meeting was held in London in March 2024 and attended by 28 networking partners, including industry and patient representatives. We achieved consensus on minimal recommended phenotyping, harmonised wet laboratory protocols, statistical design, reporting, and data sharing. Here, we also share a variety of relevant standard operating procedures as supplementary protocols. We envision that our recommendations will help unify human tissue research in the field and accelerate our understanding of how abnormal interactions between sensory neurons and their local peripheral environment contribute towards neuropathic pain.

Melanoma is one of the most significant and dangerous superficial skin tumors with a high fatality rate, thanks to its high invasion rate, drug resistance and frequent metastasis properties. Unfortunately, researchers for decades have demonstrated that the outcome of using conventional therapies like chemotherapy and immunotherapy with normal drug delivery routes, such as an oral route to treat melanoma was not satisfactory. The severe adverse effects, slow drug delivery efficiency and low drug accumulation at targeted malignancy sites all lead to poor anti-cancer efficacy and terrible treatment experience. As a novel transdermal drug delivery system, microneedles (MNs) have emerged as an effective solution to help improve the low cure rate of melanoma. The excellent characteristics of MNs make it easy to penetrate the stratum corneum (SC) and then locally deliver the drug towards the lesion without drug leakage to mitigate the occurrence of side effects and increase the drug accumulation. Therefore, loading chemotherapeutic drugs or immunotherapy drugs in MNs can address the problems mentioned above, and MNs play a crucial role in improving the curative effect of conventional treatment methods. Notably, novel tumor therapies like photothermal therapy (PTT), photodynamic therapy (PDT) and chemodynamic therapy (CDT) have shown good application prospects in the treatment of melanoma, and MNs provide a valid platform for the combination of conventional therapies and novel therapies by encompassing different therapeutic materials in the matrix of MNs. The synergistic effect of multiple therapies can enhance the therapeutic efficacy compared to single therapies, showing great potential in melanoma treatment. Dissolving MNs have been the most commonly used microneedles in the treatment of melanoma in recent years, mainly because of their simple fabrication procedure and enough drug loading. So, considering the increasing use of dissolving MNs, this review collects research studies published in the last four years (2020-2024) that have rarely been included in other reviews to update the progress of applications of dissolving MNs in anti-melanoma treatment, especially in synergistic therapies. This review also presents current design and fabrication methods of dissolving MNs; the limitations of microneedle technology in the treatment of melanoma are comprehensively discussed. This review can provide valuable guidance for their future development.

Melanoma is one of the most significant and dangerous superficial skin tumors with a high fatality rate, thanks to its high invasion rate, drug resistance and frequent metastasis properties. Unfortunately, researchers for decades have demonstrated that the outcome of using conventional therapies like chemotherapy and immunotherapy with normal drug delivery routes, such as an oral route to treat melanoma was not satisfactory. The severe adverse effects, slow drug delivery efficiency and low drug accumulation at targeted malignancy sites all lead to poor anti-cancer efficacy and terrible treatment experience. As a novel transdermal drug delivery system, microneedles (MNs) have emerged as an effective solution to help improve the low cure rate of melanoma. The excellent characteristics of MNs make it easy to penetrate the stratum corneum (SC) and then locally deliver the drug towards the lesion without drug leakage to mitigate the occurrence of side effects and increase the drug accumulation. Therefore, loading chemotherapeutic drugs or immunotherapy drugs in MNs can address the problems mentioned above, and MNs play a crucial role in improving the curative effect of conventional treatment methods. Notably, novel tumor therapies like photothermal therapy (PTT), photodynamic therapy (PDT) and chemodynamic therapy (CDT) have shown good application prospects in the treatment of melanoma, and MNs provide a valid platform for the combination of conventional therapies and novel therapies by encompassing different therapeutic materials in the matrix of MNs. The synergistic effect of multiple therapies can enhance the therapeutic efficacy compared to single therapies, showing great potential in melanoma treatment. Dissolving MNs have been the most commonly used microneedles in the treatment of melanoma in recent years, mainly because of their simple fabrication procedure and enough drug loading. So, considering the increasing use of dissolving MNs, this review collects research studies published in the last four years (2020-2024) that have rarely been included in other reviews to update the progress of applications of dissolving MNs in anti-melanoma treatment, especially in synergistic therapies. This review also presents current design and fabrication methods of dissolving MNs; the limitations of microneedle technology in the treatment of melanoma are comprehensively discussed. This review can provide valuable guidance for their future development.

Pityriasis rubra pilaris (PRP) is a rare chronic inflammatory skin disease characterised by follicular keratotic papules and perifollicular erythema coalescing into orange-red scaly plaques, and palmoplantar keratoderma. Characteristic islands of sparing are usually observed. A standardised therapeutic approach is lacking owing to the infrequent occurrence of this disease. However, anti-interleukin (IL)-17 and anti-IL-23 therapies have recently emerged as effective therapies in patients affected by PRP, with improvements in severity scores, change in severity of erythema, scaling, and thickness of lesions. Here, we report a 43-year old, female breast cancer who developed severe refractory PRP, which greatly impacted her quality of life. The patient experienced a marked improvement after treatment with tildrakizumab. Treatment was stopped after one year, and the three-year follow-up did not show relapse. In conclusion, 52- week treatment with tildrakizumab, an IL-23 antagonist, proved to be a favourable treatment option for PRP, leading to good patient adherence, improvement in quality of life, and long-term follow-up without relapse.

Pityriasis rubra pilaris (PRP) is a rare chronic inflammatory skin disease characterised by follicular keratotic papules and perifollicular erythema coalescing into orange-red scaly plaques, and palmoplantar keratoderma. Characteristic islands of sparing are usually observed. A standardised therapeutic approach is lacking owing to the infrequent occurrence of this disease. However, anti-interleukin (IL)-17 and anti-IL-23 therapies have recently emerged as effective therapies in patients affected by PRP, with improvements in severity scores, change in severity of erythema, scaling, and thickness of lesions. Here, we report a 43-year old, female breast cancer who developed severe refractory PRP, which greatly impacted her quality of life. The patient experienced a marked improvement after treatment with tildrakizumab. Treatment was stopped after one year, and the three-year follow-up did not show relapse. In conclusion, 52- week treatment with tildrakizumab, an IL-23 antagonist, proved to be a favourable treatment option for PRP, leading to good patient adherence, improvement in quality of life, and long-term follow-up without relapse.

Allergic contact dermatitis (ACD) is a delayed-type hypersensitivity reaction that presents as a pruritic eczematous rash occurring 24 to 48 h after allergen exposure. It is a surgical complication that can impact people's quality of life after plastic surgeries. A 44-year-old female with right breast cancer presented with three recurrent episodes of severe pruritic cutaneous eczematous eruption over her right breast extending down to her trunk and vulva each time soon after her multiple breast surgeries. She was labeled as having allergies to several intravenous antibiotics received perioperatively. She was then patch tested with a positive reaction to bacitracin, a component of a modified double antibiotic solution used for pocket irrigation intraoperatively. It highlights the need for plastic surgeons to consider ACD to bacitracin in patients with dermatitis soon after having bacitracin for pocket irrigation or implant soaking during breast surgeries. Comprehensive patch testing can delineate the cause of surgery-related ACD.

Cutaneous basal cell carcinoma (BCC) in situ is a recently recognized subtype of the skin neoplasm in which the abnormal cells are confined to the epidermis. BCC in situ of the skin was previously referred to as a superficial BCC. A review of the world literature has revealed 10 cutaneous BCCs in situ that have been described in nine patients but likely reflect a more general phenomenon. The neoplasm typically presents as an asymptomatic red plaque on the abdomen, upper extremity, back, and chest. Pathologic changes frequently show confluent tumor cells along the epidermal basal layer or superficial aggregates of neoplastic cells that are contiguous with the epidermis and extend into the dermis. Genomic evaluation has been performed in neoplasms from one individual with cutaneous BCC in situ and metastatic BCC; like other variants of BCC, an aberration of the <i>PTCH1</i> gene was observed. In contrast to his liver metastasis, the in situ carcinoma had a lower tumor mutational burden, lacked programmed death-ligand 1 <i>(PD-L1)</i> and programmed death-ligand 2 <i>(PD-L2)</i> amplification and had a distinct <i>PTCH1</i> mutation, suggesting that the in situ BCC of his skin and the metastatic BCC of his liver were derived from different clones of cells.

Pancreatic adenocarcinomas are highly malignant tumors. The liver, peritoneum, and, very rarely, the skin are the sites of pancreatic metastases. Cutaneous metastasis is rare, with scalp metastasis being seldomly found. We report the case of an elderly woman who initially presented with ulcerated scalp swellings. The immunohistochemistry analysis of the swollen scalp confirmed the presence of a far-metastasized adenocarcinoma. Imaging of the abdomen performed due to increasing cholestatic jaundice revealed adenocarcinoma located at the head of the pancreas. Cholestatic jaundice was treated by trans-biliary percutaneous drainage. She is currently on a chemotherapy regimen. The patient had a follow-up appointment one month ago for the fourth cycle of gemcitabine and paclitaxel and will continue to follow up until eight cycles of chemotherapy sessions. Cutaneous metastases resulting from pancreatic cancer are a rare occurrence and may occasionally present as the only visible symptom; therefore, they should be included in the differential diagnosis of skin lesions.

The prospective of percutaneous drug delivery (PDD) mechanisms to address the limitations of oral and injectable treatment for rheumatoid arthritis (RA) is increasing. These limitations encompass inadequate compliance among patients and acute gastrointestinal side effects. However, the skin's intrinsic layer can frequently hinder the percutaneous dispersion of RA medications, thus mitigating the efficiency of drug delivery. To circumvent this constraint, we developed a strontium ranelate (SrR)-loaded alginate (ALG) phototherapeutic hydrogel to assess its effectiveness in combating RA. Our studies revealed that this SrR-loaded ALG hydrogel incorporating photoelectrically responsive molybdenum disulfide nanoflowers (MoS<sub>2</sub> NFs) and photothermally responsive polypyrrole nanoparticles (Ppy NPs) to form ALG@SrR-MoS<sub>2</sub> NFs-Ppy NPs demonstrated substantial mechanical strength, potentially enabling delivery of hydrophilic therapeutic agents into the skin and significantly impeding the progression of RA. Comprehensive biochemical, histological, behavioral, and radiographic analyses in an animal model of zymosan-induced RA demonstrated that the application of these phototherapeutic ALG@SrR-MoS<sub>2</sub> NFs-Ppy NPs effectively reduced inflammation, increased the presence of heat shock proteins, regulatory cluster of differentiation M2 macrophages, and alleviated joint degeneration associated with RA. As demonstrated by our findings, treating RA and possibly other autoimmune disorders with this phototherapeutic hydrogel system offers a distinctive, highly compliant, and therapeutically efficient method.

This work investigated the peptide profile of skin secretion from Lithobates palmipes collected from the Brazilian Atlantic Forest. The secretion was submitted to reversed phase high-performance liquid chromatography (RP-HPLC) and the fractions were screened for antibacterial activity. RP-HPLC resulted in the separation of several peaks, among which 10 showed antibacterial activity and contained peptides of the ranatuerin, brevinin and temporin families. Fraction 6 was resubmitted to RP-HPLC and a novel peptide from temporin family (temporin-PMb) had its primary structure determined. Temporin-PMb and non-amidated temporin-PMb were synthesized, purified, and evaluated for antibacterial activity, hemolytic activity and cytotoxicity to keratinocytes and cancer cells. Temporin-PMb was active against Klebsiella pneumoniae, Staphylococcus aureus, Escherichia coli, and Pseudomonas aeruginosa as well as against methicilin-resistant S. aureus (MRSA) and Acinetobacter baumannii. It was cytotoxic to human cervical adenocarcinoma cells (HeLa) and human mammary adenocarcinoma cells (MCF7) with IC<sub>50</sub> of 32.4 and 24.1 μM, respectively. It was also toxic to human keratinocytes (HaCaT; IC<sub>50</sub> of 25.0 μM) and showed hemolytic activity. The non-amidated form showed low hemolytic activity and lower HaCaT toxicity, but was only effective against E. coli, S. aureus MRSA, and A. baumanii. In conclusion, Atlantic Forest L. palmipes skin secretion contained different bioactive peptides, including a novel temporin with antibacterial effect and cytotoxicity towards human cancer cells. The amide group was responsible for the activities of the wild-type temporin-PMb. Peptide engineering studies are encouraged aiming at minimizing unwanted effects.

Intraperitoneal (i.p.) administered nanomedicine has been widely applied in the clinical treatment of intra-abdominal diseases and preclinical pharmacological investigations. However, current understandings about the in vivo fate of i.p.-administered drug remains controversial owing to lack of reliable investigation tools. This work presents a nanoparticle-labeling strategy based on aggregation-caused quenching (ACQ) probes in the second near-infrared (NIR-II) window, which can eliminate the interference of unbound probes and allow for non-invasive tracking of nanoparticles in deep tissues. Our results strongly evidence a size-dependent absorption and biodistribution of the i.p.-administered polymeric nanocarriers (PNs) with particle sizes ranging from 30 to 1000 nm both in vivo and ex vivo, and moreover provide a clear visualization of lymphatic transportation and lymph node retention of integral PNs. Importantly, our findings suggest that small particles (≤30 nm) are favorable in systemic therapies due to their rapid absorption and high concentration (>19 %ID mL<sup>-1</sup>) in circulation, while large particles (over 1000 nm) are meant for localized treatment of abdominal diseases. Besides, the high retention of 200 nm nanoparticles within lymph nodes indicates their promising role in cancer vaccines and lymphatic diseases including lymph node metastasis.

BACKGROUND Giant cell tumors of bone typically occur in early adulthood, when the growth plate has closed. The distal radius is the second most common location affected, accounting for 10% to 12% of cases. Complications of poor soft tissue healing are rare in the distal radius, owing to its rich blood supply. However, the curettage procedure and use of bone cement and external fixation can affect the local blood supply. CASE REPORT We present a rare case of a 24-year-old woman with no significant medical history who underwent surgery at a local hospital to treat a giant cell tumor of the radius. During postoperative wound dressing changes, a 4×3-cm area of flushed skin color with a small blister and reduced local sensation was found on the dorsal side of the wrist. The skin condition worsened despite treatment at the surgical outpatient clinic, leading to referral to scar specialist outpatient treatment. Examination revealed a well-healed surgical scar on the palmar side of the wrist, but a skin defect with necrotic tissue and tendon exposure on the dorsal side. The diagnosis was postoperative soft tissue necrosis of the skin with a giant cell tumor of the bone. CONCLUSIONS This case report discusses the management of chronic non-healing postoperative wounds in giant cell tumors of the distal radius. It emphasizes the importance of appropriate dressing changes, selecting suitable dressings, nutritional support, and effective nurse-patient communication. The case serves as an example of best practices for managing these types of wounds.

In this study, we tested a novel approach of "repurposing" a biomarker typically associated with breast cancer for use in melanoma. HER2/neu is a well characterized biomarker in breast cancer for which effective anti-HER2/neu therapies are readily available. We constructed a lentivirus encoding c-erb-B2, an animal (rat) homolog to HER2/neu. This was used to transfect B16 melanoma in vitro for use in an orthotopic preclinical mouse model, which resulted in expression of rat c-erb-B2 as a neoantigen target for anti-c-erb-B2 monoclonal antibody (7.16.4). The c-erb-B2-expressing melanoma was designated B16/neu. 7.16.4 produced statistically significant in vivo anti-tumor responses against B16/neu. This effect was mediated by NK-cell antibody-dependent cell-mediated cytotoxicity. To further model human melanoma (which expresses < 5% HER2/neu), our c-erb-B2 encoding lentivirus was used to inoculate naïve (wild-type) B16 tumors in vivo, resulting in successful c-erb-B2 expression. When combined with 7.16.4, anti-tumor responses were again demonstrated where approximately 40% of mice treated with c-erb-B2 lentivirus and 7.16.4 achieved complete clinical response and long-term survival. For the first time, we demonstrated a novel strategy to repurpose c-erb-B2 as a neoantigen target for melanoma. Our findings are particularly significant in the contemporary setting where newer anti-HER2/neu antibody-drug therapies have shown increased efficacy.

Localized delivery of inflammasome inhibitors in phagocytic macrophages could be promising for psoriasis treatment. The present work demonstrates the development of non-spherical lipid nanoparticles, mimicking pathogen-like shapes, consisting of an anti-inflammatory inflammasome inhibiting lipid (pyridoxine dipalmitate) as a trojan horse. The nanorods inhibit inflammasome by 3.8- and 4.5-fold compared with nanoellipses and nanospheres, respectively. Nanorods reduce apoptosis-associated speck-like protein and lysosomal rupture, restrain calcium influx, and mitochondrial reactive oxygen species. Dual inflammasome inhibitor (NLRP3/AIM-2-IN-3) loaded nanorods cause synergistic inhibition by 21.5- and 59-folds compared with nanorods and free drug, respectively alongside caspase-1 inhibition. The NLRP3/AIM-2-IN-3 nanorod when transformed into a polymeric scaffold, simultaneously and effectively inhibits RNA levels of NLRP3, AIM2, caspase-1, chemokine ligand-2, gasdermin-D, interleukin-1β, toll-like receptor 7/ 8, and IL-17A by 6.4-, 1.6-, 2.0-, 13.0-, 4.2-, 24.4-, 4.3-, and 1.82-fold, respectively in psoriatic skin in comparison to Imiquimod positive control group in an in-vivo psoriasis-like mice model.

Although the pulse electric field (PEF) has been used in electrochemotherapy (ECT) for many years, the kinetics and profile of extracellular particles (EPs) released as a result of reversible electroporation have yet to be studied. It also needs to be clarified whether and how the profile of released EPs depends on the parameters of the applied PEF. The presented studies investigated the effect of EPs released from human melanoma cells after various parameters of reversible electroporation on markers indicating EP-mediated transformation of normal fibroblasts into tumor-associated fibroblasts. The expression levels of the vascular cell adhesion molecule-1 (VCAM-1) and changes in the expression of phosphor-histone H3 (pHH3), a biomarker specific for cells in mitosis, cell viability, and the migration capacity of the studied fibroblast cells, were analyzed. EPs were isolated from two commercial malignant melanoma cell lines previously subjected to reversible electroporation. Human primary fibroblasts (HPFs) were selected for EPs exposure. It was observed that after incubation with melanoma-derived EPs, HPFs showed differences in cell viability, migration capacity, VCAM-1, pHH3, and N-cadherin expression, depending on PEF parameters and the grade of melanoma cells. This study highlights that small extracellular particles (sEPs) from cancer cells can promote metastasis by carrying specific signals that lead to the upregulation of molecules like FAK, MMP-9, and N-cadherin in recipient cells.

The CRISPR/Cas9 system is a powerful tool for genome editing, utilizing the Cas9 nuclease and programmable single guide RNA (sgRNA). However, the Cas9 nuclease activity can be disabled by mutation, resulting in catalytically deactivated Cas9 (dCas9). By combining the customizable sgRNA with dCas9, researchers can inhibit specific gene expression (CRISPR interference, CRISPRi) or activate the expression of a target gene (CRISPR activation, CRISPRa). In this review, we present the principles and recent advancements of these CRISPR technologies, as well as their delivery vectors. We also explore their applications in stem cell engineering and regenerative medicine, with a focus on in vitro stem cell fate manipulation and in vivo treatments. These include the prevention of retinal and muscular degeneration, neural regeneration, bone regeneration, cartilage tissue engineering, and the treatment of blood, skin, and liver diseases. Furthermore, we discuss the challenges of translating CRISPR technologies into regenerative medicine and provide future perspectives. Overall, this review highlights the potential of CRISPR in advancing regenerative medicine and offers insights into its application in various areas of research and therapy.

Rice products are ubiquitous in the diets of American children and are often utilized to thicken feeds as part of treatments for gastroesophageal reflux disease in infants. However, a 2015 Food and Drug Administration investigation demonstrated that they contain unsafe levels of inorganic arsenic. Inorganic arsenic exposure has been linked to serious health issues including skin, lung, and bladder cancer. Smaller children are put at higher risk due to the increased arsenic-to-weight ratio compared to adults, threatening their development in multiple ways. Other thickeners offer cost-effective, safer alternatives. With this communication, we aim to raise awareness of this issue within the otolaryngology practice thereby bringing us abreast of the best practices of the pediatric and gastrointestinal medical societies who have recommended against the use of rice for thickening feeds, instead advocating for alternate natural thickening agents like wheat or oatmeal.

This study aims to analyze the clinicopathological characteristics and survival outcomes of cutaneous soft tissue sarcomas (CSTS) in children. We selected pediatric cases of CSTS diagnosed between 2000 and 2019 from the Surveillance, Epidemiology, and End Results (SEER) database. Survival rates were calculated using Kaplan-Meier methods. We performed univariate analyses with the log-rank test and multivariate survival analyses using Cox proportional-hazards models to determine factors affecting overall survival (OS). Additionally, we constructed a predictive nomogram based on the outcomes of the Cox regression. A total of 148 pediatric patients with CSTS were reviewed. The median age at diagnosis was 13 years (range: 0-18 years). Prognostically, tumors located on the extremities showed better outcomes compared to those on the head, neck, or trunk. Among the histological types, angiosarcoma had the lowest five-year survival rate at 51.3%, which was substantially lower compared to fibrous histiocytoma and leiomyosarcoma. Cox regression analysis highlighted surgical intervention as the only significant independent prognostic factor for OS, with an increased risk of mortality observed in patients not undergoing surgery. Additionally, patients with distant-stage disease exhibited significantly lower survival rates than those with localized conditions. Pediatric CSTS represents a diverse and infrequent group of tumors, predominantly fibrous histiocytoma and leiomyosarcoma. Surgery was identified as the crucial determinant of survival, underscoring its role in effectively managing these patients.

Ultraviolet (UV) exposure triggers skin aging primarily by disrupting skin barrier function, resulting in dry skin and wrinkle formation. Oyster hydrolysate (OH), as a functional food, has been reported for anti-cancer, anti-oxidant and anti-apoptotic effects. This study investigated the underlying mechanism of OH effect on UVB-induced skin aging in SKH1 hairless mice. Mice were exposed to UVB three times per week while they were fed with a normal diet or diet containing OH for 10 weeks. Additionally, a randomized, double-blind, and placebo-controlled clinical trial was performed to investigate the OH effect on human skin moisturizing to evaluate its efficacy and safety. UVB exposure increased parameters of skin aging; dehydration, transepidermal water loss, and macroscopic dorsal skin lesions. OH significantly reduced these features of skin aging. Histological analysis demonstrated that OH decreased skin epidermal and dermal thickness and collagen degradation induced by UVB. OH significantly reduced ROS production, suppressed macrophage activation and neutrophil infiltration, and downregulated pro-inflammatory cytokine production. OH improved skin barrier function by increasing the expression of filaggrin, aquaporin-3, and hyaluronic acid synthesis enzymes and promoting recovery from skin damage. Importantly, the results from a human clinical trial demonstrated that OH improved skin moisturization and integrity with no side effects. Taken together, OH supplementation ameliorates skin damage via anti-oxidant and anti-inflammatory properties and enhances skin hydration and barrier function. OH has a therapeutic potential for skin photoaging.

Developing superior cancer cell recognition probes is crucial for the development of tumor therapy and cancer early screening materials. In this study, we first achieved effective recognition of MCF-7 breast cancer cells using natural collagen probes. Through cell adhesion, cancer cell selective capture, and flow cytometry techniques, the binding efficiency of mammalian-derived collagens (bovine Achilles tendon collagen, porcine skin collagen) and fish-derived collagens (turbot skin collagen, grass carp skin collagen, mandarin fish skin collagen) to cancer cells (MCF-7 breast cancer cells) and normal cells (human umbilical vein endothelial cells, HUVECs) was analyzed and compared. The feasibility of different source collagens as probes for recognition of MCF-7 cells was explored in vitro. The results indicated that mammalian-derived collagens had a superior advantage over fish-derived collagens in recognizing MCF-7 cells, with bovine Achilles tendon collagen achieving a capture rate of up to 64.7 % in a multicellular co-culture system. Furthermore, in vivo imaging of BALB/c tumor-bearing mice confirmed the high-efficiency targeted recognition performance of the bovine Achilles tendon collagen probe for MCF-7 cells.

Developing superior cancer cell recognition probes is crucial for the development of tumor therapy and cancer early screening materials. In this study, we first achieved effective recognition of MCF-7 breast cancer cells using natural collagen probes. Through cell adhesion, cancer cell selective capture, and flow cytometry techniques, the binding efficiency of mammalian-derived collagens (bovine Achilles tendon collagen, porcine skin collagen) and fish-derived collagens (turbot skin collagen, grass carp skin collagen, mandarin fish skin collagen) to cancer cells (MCF-7 breast cancer cells) and normal cells (human umbilical vein endothelial cells, HUVECs) was analyzed and compared. The feasibility of different source collagens as probes for recognition of MCF-7 cells was explored in vitro. The results indicated that mammalian-derived collagens had a superior advantage over fish-derived collagens in recognizing MCF-7 cells, with bovine Achilles tendon collagen achieving a capture rate of up to 64.7 % in a multicellular co-culture system. Furthermore, in vivo imaging of BALB/c tumor-bearing mice confirmed the high-efficiency targeted recognition performance of the bovine Achilles tendon collagen probe for MCF-7 cells.

Melanoma is a malignant neuroectodermal tumor arising from skin pigment cells (melanocytes). Distant metastases and damage to the nervous system occur mainly at the later stages of disease. However, primary tumor may not be verified despite distant metastases in some cases. We present a patient with metastatic melanoma to the left median nerve and brachial plexus without clear primary lesion. This case describes surgical treatment of melanoma metastasis followed by median neuropathy.

Poromas are benign adnexal neoplasms of eccrine origin, believed to arise from the outer layer of acrosyringia and upper dermal eccrine ducts, with a predilection for glabrous skin. They typically present as a pink or red papule with a surrounding thin moat on the palms and soles. We report a case of poroma with histopathologic features reminiscent of syringocystadenoma papilliferum (SCAP). A 70-year-old woman presented with a 2.0 cm pedunculated nodule on the left suprapubic abdomen. Histopathologically, the lesion predominantly displayed features of a conventional poroma but also included areas with endophytic invaginations lined by large, plump epithelioid cells with abundant eosinophilic cytoplasm and occasional decapitation secretion, alongside a stroma rich in plasma cells-characteristics suggestive of SCAP. However, definitive bilayers with myoepithelial cells were not observed. Immunohistochemical studies revealed that the tumor cells were positive for TRPS1 (particularly around SCAP-like areas) and CEA (indicating ductal differentiation), but negative for BRAF V600E and NUT. The diagnosis of poroma with apocrine differentiation mimicking SCAP was favored. This unusual morphologic variation in poromas is rare, with fewer than 5 cases documented in the literature. These SCAP-like features likely represent a variation within the morphologic spectrum of poromas rather than the presence of 2 synchronous tumors. Our case highlights the importance of recognizing such variations in poroid neoplasms to ensure accurate diagnosis.

Understanding and managing locally advanced basal cell carcinoma (BCC) is crucial given its substantial prevalence and potential for local tissue destruction. While BCC typically exhibits low metastatic potential, its high incidence underscores the need for enhanced therapeutic strategies. Locally advanced BCC presents unique challenges, often necessitating aggressive interventions to prevent disfigurement and functional impairment. The emergence of hedgehog pathway inhibitors (HHIs) offers promising therapeutic avenues by targeting aberrant hedgehog signaling, a key driver in BCC pathogenesis. Thus, elucidating the pathogenesis of locally advanced BCC and exploring the role of HHIs are critical endeavors in effectively managing this prevalent carcinoma. Epidemiologically, BCC primarily affects individuals with fair skin and chronic sun exposure, with an increasing incidence noted among younger age groups. Risk factors include UV radiation exposure, familial history of skin cancer, immunosuppression, and genetic syndromes such as basal cell nevus syndrome and xeroderma pigmentosum. Pathogenetically, BCC arises from cells in the skin's epidermis, with hedgehog pathway activation being a primary genetic driver, involving mutations in PTCH1 and SMO. Resistance to hedgehog inhibitors may occur due to genetic changes, complicating treatment strategies. BCC is characterized by low immunogenicity, which hinders immune response and contributes to treatment challenges. Enhanced understanding of the epidemiology, risk factors, and pathogenesis of locally advanced BCC, along with the development of targeted therapeutic approaches such as hedgehog pathway inhibitors, is essential for effectively managing this prevalent carcinoma and improving patient outcomes.

Cutaneous malignant melanoma is an aggressive skin cancer with an approximate lifetime risk of 1 in 38 in the UK. While exposure to ultraviolet radiation is a key environmental risk factor for melanoma, up to ~10% of patients report a family history of melanoma, and ~1% have a strong family history. The understanding of causal mutations in melanoma has been critical to the development of novel targeted therapies that have contributed to improved outcomes for late-stage patients. Here, we review current knowledge of the genes affected by familial melanoma mutations and their partial overlap with driver genes commonly mutated in sporadic melanoma development. One theme linking a set of susceptibility loci/genes is the regulation of skin pigmentation and suntanning. The largest functional set of susceptibility variants, typically with high penetrance, includes CDKN2A, RB1, and telomerase reverse transcriptase (TERT) mutations, associated with attenuation of cell senescence. We discuss the mechanisms of action of these gene sets in the biology and progression of nevi and melanoma.

Cutaneous squamous cell carcinoma (cSCC) is a common form of skin cancer, but treatments for advanced cases have limited efficacy. Trophoblast cell-surface antigen 2 (TROP2) is a cell-surface protein that is widely expressed in various tumours, where it exerts significant influence over critical processes such as tumour cell growth, apoptosis, migration, invasion and metastasis. Sacituzumab govitecan, an antibody-drug conjugate (ADC) targeting TROP2, is emerging as a promising strategy for anticancer therapy. In this study, we investigated TROP2 expression in cSCC tissues from 51 patients and evaluated its function in the A431 human SCC cell line. Immunohistochemical analysis revealed TROP2 expression on the plasma membrane of cSCC tissues and A431 cells. A431 cells showed sensitivity to sacituzumab govitecan with a significant concentration-dependent decrease in viable cell number. In addition, Knockdown of TROP2 resulted in decreased expression of cyclin D1 and BCL-2, along with reduced cell viability. Knockdown of TROP2 also resulted in decreased expression of vimentin, along with reduced migratory capacity. These findings suggest that TROP2 plays a crucial role in cSCC cell proliferation and migration, and highlight the potential of sacituzumab govitecan as a promising therapeutic option for cSCC.

A 24-year-old man presented to our hospital because he found that his stool with intermittent blood for one month. The patient was healthy in the past. The patient had no family history of colorectal polyps or cancer. Gastroscopy showed normal. Colonoscopy revealed a solitary polyp with a long peduncle in the sigmoid colon, about 3.0cm in diameter, congestive edematous and erosion on the surface and chicken skin‑like in the surrounding mucosa. A clip was applied to the stalk and then the polyp was excised by electrocoagulation with a snare. Histopathological analysis revealed that the polyp was a juvenile polyp without any malignant signs.

Melanoma is the most severe form of skin cancer with an incidence that is increasing all over the world. Melanoma cells derive from normal melanocytes and share different melanocyte-specific antigens, the same antigens against which an immune reaction develops in vitiligo, a skin disease characterized by autoimmune-mediated melanocyte destruction. The purpose of this review is to present the autoimmune-mediated melanocyte destruction associated with melanoma development, progression and treatment. Patients with vitiligo seem to have a lower chance of developing melanoma. On the other hand, patients with melanoma can develop depigmented lesions even at distant sites from the primary tumor, defined as melanoma-associated leukoderma (MAL). Drug-associated leukoderma (DAL) was also described in melanoma patients treated with immunotherapy or targeted therapy and it seems to be a favorable prognostic factor. Clinically, MAL and DAL can be diagnosed as vitiligo and there are few differences between these three entities. In this review, the incidence of DAL in melanoma patients treated with different therapies was researched in the literature and patient outcome was recorded, with studies showing a prolonged disease-free survival in melanoma patients with DAL, treated with immune checkpoint inhibitors. Further studies are however needed to understand the dynamics of autoimmune-mediated melanocyte destruction.

The present study aimed to explore the adherence to and efficiency of skin protection measures among teenagers and young adults. The present study investigated the reasons for sun exposure and the obstacles impeding sun protection. In the summer of 2023, a self-reported questionnaire was posted on the social media account of two high schools, a university, some industrial companies and among the teenage children of a dermatology clinic. Descriptive statistics and multivariate logistic regression analyses were performed to assess the reasons for sun exposure behavior, sun protection measures and the frequency of sunburn among individuals aged 15 to 25 year. A total of 517 young individuals completed the questionnaire. It was found that 43.5% use a hat as a means of sun protection, and only 10% try to limit their exposure to the sun. Nevertheless, 78.7% indicate the use of sun cream, 61.7% expose themselves frequently or very frequently to the sun, and 51.2% exposed themselves to the sun for tanning. Young females were statistically more prone to tan [odds ratio (OR), 2.95; 95% confidence interval (CI), 1.95-4.46] P=0.03 than males. Males exposed themselves to a 3-fold greater extent during recreational activities (OR, 2.98; 95% CI, 1.56-5.69) P=0,025, compared to females. On the whole, the present study demonstrates that young individuals aged 15 to 25 years are exposing themselves too frequently to the sun. A large proportion of individuals still wishes to acquire a tan. Even if the large majority of individuals uses sunscreen, the majority of these do not protect themselves correctly since they report becoming sunburnt frequently.

Metabolic reprogramming is a ubiquitous feature of transformed cells, comprising one of the hallmarks of cancer and enabling neoplastic cells to adapt to new environments. Accumulated evidence reports on the failure of some neoplastic cells to convert mannose-6-phosphate into fructose-6-phosphate, thereby impairing tumor growth in cells displaying low levels of mannose-6-phosphate isomerase (MPI). Thus, we performed functional analyses and profiled the proteome landscape and the repertoire of substrates of proteases (degradome) of melanoma cell lines with distinct mutational backgrounds submitted to treatment with mannose. Our results suggest a significant rearrangement in the proteome and degradome of melanoma cell lines upon mannose treatment including the activation of catabolic pathways (such as protein turnover) and differences in protein N-terminal acetylation. Even though MPI protein abundance and gene expression status are not prognostic markers, perturbation in the network caused by an exogenous monosaccharide source (i.e., mannose) significantly affected the downstream interconnected biological circuitry. Therefore, as reported in this study, the proteomic/degradomic mapping of mannose downstream effects due to the metabolic rewiring caused by the functional status of the MPI enzyme could lead to the identification of specific molecular players from affected signaling circuits in melanoma.

Inflammatory breast carcinoma (IBC) is an aggressive form of breast cancer involving skin lymphatics. Breast reconstruction traditionally has been delayed in IBC. Immediate reconstruction has been described in select patients. Studies evaluating the reconstructive and oncologic safety of immediate breast reconstruction in this patient population are limited and retrospective. The purpose of this study is to assess the current body of literature on immediate breast reconstruction in IBC patients to identify knowledge gaps. A scoping review was conducted using PubMed, Scopus, Embase, and Cochrane databases. Original articles that evaluated patients diagnosed with IBC who underwent immediate breast reconstruction were included. The search yielded 821 articles, of which 9 articles containing 1429 IBC patients were included for analysis. Immediate implant-based reconstruction occurred in 12.2% (174/1429) of patients. Immediate autologous reconstruction occurred in 19.0% (272/1429). Immediate reconstruction with both autologous and implant-based techniques was 4.5% (64/1429). Reconstruction type was not reported for 63.0% (899/1429) of patients. Postoperative complications occurred in 1.8% (26/1429) of patients. Local cancer recurrence was 14.3% (3/21) at 18.9 months. The mortality rate was 32.4% (131/404) at 22 months. Performance of immediate breast reconstruction can be safely performed from a reconstructive standpoint in select patients.

Inflammatory breast carcinoma (IBC) is an aggressive form of breast cancer involving skin lymphatics. Breast reconstruction traditionally has been delayed in IBC. Immediate reconstruction has been described in select patients. Studies evaluating the reconstructive and oncologic safety of immediate breast reconstruction in this patient population are limited and retrospective. The purpose of this study is to assess the current body of literature on immediate breast reconstruction in IBC patients to identify knowledge gaps. A scoping review was conducted using PubMed, Scopus, Embase, and Cochrane databases. Original articles that evaluated patients diagnosed with IBC who underwent immediate breast reconstruction were included. The search yielded 821 articles, of which 9 articles containing 1429 IBC patients were included for analysis. Immediate implant-based reconstruction occurred in 12.2% (174/1429) of patients. Immediate autologous reconstruction occurred in 19.0% (272/1429). Immediate reconstruction with both autologous and implant-based techniques was 4.5% (64/1429). Reconstruction type was not reported for 63.0% (899/1429) of patients. Postoperative complications occurred in 1.8% (26/1429) of patients. Local cancer recurrence was 14.3% (3/21) at 18.9 months. The mortality rate was 32.4% (131/404) at 22 months. Performance of immediate breast reconstruction can be safely performed from a reconstructive standpoint in select patients.

Canine mucosal melanoma (CMM) is the most common oral malignancy in dogs and is significantly more aggressive than its cutaneous counterpart (CCM), yet the reasons for this disparity remain unclear. Cancer-associated stroma (CAS) plays a crucial role in tumour progression, but a detailed understanding of CAS in canine melanoma is missing. To assess stromal reprogramming, we analysed CAS from 21 CMM, 14 CCM and normal stroma from 10 skin and 9 oral mucosa samples by laser-capture microdissection followed by RNA sequencing. Results were assessed in relation to subtypes, prognostic factors including mitotic count (MC), ulceration, necrosis, pigmentation and immune cell infiltration (CD3, CD20 and CD68), scored using immunohistochemistry and RNA in situ hybridisation. Stromal reprogramming was evident in both subtypes but significantly more pronounced in CMM. Immune-excluded tumours exhibited higher MC than desert/cold ones. MC strongly correlated with genes associated with B-cells, T-helper cells and CTLA4 in CCM, suggesting CAS reprogramming to depend on tumour malignancy. Finally, we identify an immune-suppressive stromal signature in a subset of CMM characterised by the downregulation of key immune checkpoints and pathways. Together, these findings provide a solid foundation for understanding the role of CAS in canine melanoma, specific to cutaneous and mucosal subtypes.

The integrated behaviour of multiple senescent cell types within a single human tissue leading to the development of malignancy is unclear. Patients with Familial Melanoma Syndrome (FMS) have heterozygous germline defects in the CDKN2A gene coding for the cyclin inhibitor p16<sup>INK4a</sup>. Melanocytes within skin biopsies from FMS patients express significantly less p16<sup>INK4a</sup> but express higher levels of the DNA-damage protein 𝛾H2AX a than fibroblastic cells. However, patient fibroblasts also exhibit defects since senescent cells do not increase in the skin during ageing and fibroblasts isolated from the skin of patients have increased replicative capacity compared to control fibroblasts in vitro, culminating in abnormal nuclear morphology. Patient derived fibroblasts also secreted less SASP than control cells. Predisposition of FMS patients to melanoma may therefore result from integrated dysregulation of senescence in multiple cell types in vivo. The inherently greater levels of DNA damage and the overdependence of melanocytes on p16 for cell cycle inhibition after DNA damage makes them exquisitely susceptible to malignant transformation. This may be accentuated by senescence-related defects in fibroblasts, in particular reduced SASP secretion that hinders recruitment of T cells in the steady state and thus reduces cutaneous immunosurveillance in vivo.

A tendon's ordered extracellular matrix (ECM) is essential for transmitting force but is also highly prone to injury. How tendon cells embedded within and surrounding this dense ECM orchestrate healing is not well understood. Here, we identify a specialized quiescent Scx<sup>+</sup>/Axin2<sup>+</sup> population in mouse and human tendons that initiates healing and is a major functional contributor to repair. Axin2<sup>+</sup> cells express stem cell markers, expand in vitro, and have multilineage differentiation potential. Following tendon injury, Axin2<sup>+</sup>-descendants infiltrate the injury site, proliferate, and differentiate into tenocytes. Transplantation assays of Axin2-labeled cells into injured tendons reveal their dual capacity to significantly proliferate and differentiate yet retain their Axin2<sup>+</sup> identity. Specific loss of Wnt secretion in Axin2<sup>+</sup> or Scx<sup>+</sup> cells disrupts their ability to respond to injury, severely compromising healing. Our work highlights an unusual paradigm, wherein specialized Axin2<sup>+</sup>/Scx<sup>+</sup> cells rely on self-regulation to maintain their identity as key organizers of tissue healing.

<i>Purpose</i>. Bolus is often required for targets close to or on skin surface, however, standard bolus on complex surfaces can result in air gaps that compromise dosimetry. Brass mesh boluses (RPD, Inc., Albertville, MN) are designed to conform to the patient's surface and reduce air gaps. While they have been well characterized for their use with photons, minimal characterization exists in literature for their use with electrons.<i>Methods and materials.</i>Dosimetric characteristics of brass mesh bolus was investigated for use with 6, 9 and 12 MeV electrons using a 10 × 10 cm<sup>2</sup>applicator on standard multi-energy LINAC. Measurements for bolus equivalence and percentage depth doses (PDDs) under brass mesh, as well as surface dose measurements were performed on solid water and a 3D printed resin breast phantom (Anycubic Photon MonoX, Shenzhen, China) using Markus<sup>®</sup>parallel-plate ionization chamber (Model 34045, PTW Freiburg, Germany), thermoluminescent detectors (TLD) and EBRT film. After obtaining surface dose measurements, these were compared to dose calculated on the Pinnacle3 treatment planning system (TPS, 16.2, Koninklijke Philips N.V.).<i>Results</i>. Measurements of surface dose under brass mesh showed consistently higher dose than without bolus, confirming that brass mesh can increase the PDD at surface up to ∼ 94% of dose at d<sub>max</sub>, depending on incident electron energy. This increase is equivalent to using ∼ 7.2 mm water equivalent bolus for 6 MeV, ∼ 3.6 mm for 9 MeV and ∼ 2.2 mm bolus for 12 MeV electrons. TPS results showed close agreement with<i>in-vivo</i>measurements, confirming the potential for brass mesh as bolus for electron irradiation, provided blousing effect is correctly modelled.<i>Conclusions</i>. To increase electron surface dose, a brass mesh can be used with equivalent effect of water-density bolus varying with electron energy. Proper implementation could allow for ease of treatment, as well as increase bolus conformality in electron-only plans.

The number of primary cutaneous lymphoma patients receiving low-dose radiotherapy is increasing, though controlled clinical trials defining the standard radiation dose for each specific entity have not yet been completed. Radiation oncologists are left with making highly individualized decisions that would be better enriched by additional clinical evidence. In this expert opinion, we aim to provide a clear recommendation to improve the current practice of radiation oncology. In addition, existing literature has been reviewed to develop recommendations for all types of primary cutaneous lymphoma. A prospective trial is urgently needed to identify the factors influencing patient outcomes following different radiation doses.

Cutaneous malignant melanoma accounts for 5% of cancer diagnoses and is the fifth most common cancer diagnosed in the United States. Risk factors for cutaneous malignant melanoma include ultraviolet radiation from sun exposure, Fitzpatrick skin type I or II, a history of dysplastic nevi, indoor tanning, older age, and a personal or family history of melanoma. The U.S. Preventive Services Task Force recommends counseling with patient education on minimizing early ultraviolet radiation exposure, including the use of protective clothing and sunscreen, especially for patients 6 months to 24 years of age. Tools to aid in the diagnosis of cutaneous malignant melanoma and the decision to biopsy include the ABCDE mnemonic, ugly duckling sign, and dermoscopy. Any suspicious pigmented lesion should be biopsied. Biopsy with a deep scoop shave, saucerization, punch biopsy, or full-thickness excision is preferred to ensure the entire lesion is removed to obtain an accurate measurement of Breslow depth. Breslow depth is important in staging, treatment consideration, and prognosis. Wide local excision by a dermatologist or surgeon with appropriate margins is the primary treatment of choice. Thin lesions with a Breslow depth of less than 0.8 mm usually do not need further treatment after wide local excision and have an excellent prognosis. Lesions with a Breslow depth greater than 0.8 mm may need further diagnostic tests or procedures, including sentinel lymph node biopsy, complete lymph node dissection, gene mutation analysis, and possible treatment with systemic immunotherapy. Use of systemic immunotherapies has improved the prognosis for advanced melanoma (stages III and IV), with 5-year survival rates of 74.8% and 35%, respectively, compared with 62.6% and 16% from 1975 to 2011 before immunotherapy was available.

Patients commonly present to family physicians with skin findings, and distinguishing common benign skin tumors from potentially malignant tumors is important. Benign skin tumors can often be diagnosed by their history, distribution, and characteristic morphology. A biopsy or excision is indicated if there is diagnostic uncertainty or the lesion undergoes uncharacteristic or rapid change. A keratoacanthoma is a dome-shaped nodule with a central crater and can be difficult to distinguish from squamous cell carcinomas even with dermoscopy. Pilar cysts are typically benign, but rapidly growing types could have malignant qualities. Dermoid cysts, depending on their location, can have intracranial extension if untreated. Although dermatofibromas and seborrheic keratoses are benign, atypical presentations must be differentiated from melanomas. Sebaceous hyperplasia can mimic early basal cell carcinoma. Treatment options for cherry angiomas, acrochordons, slow-growing pilar cysts, and dermatofibromas should be individualized to skin type, lesion characteristics, and the patient's cosmetic preference. Generally, excision is the treatment of choice for keratoacanthomas, rapidly proliferating pilar cysts, and dermoid cysts. Cherry angiomas are treated with laser therapy and sebaceous hyperplasia with electrodesiccation. Common treatments for acrochordons and seborrheic keratoses are shave excision and cryotherapy. Pyogenic granulomas sometimes self-involute but bleed easily and often recur at the original site. They generally respond to shave excision and electrodesiccation. In patients with darker skin, treatment with cryotherapy and laser therapy should include discussions about hypopigmentation risk.

Complex decongestive therapy is the current gold standard for non-surgical clinical lymphedema management and consists of manual therapy, compression exercise, skincare, and education. Complex decongestive therapy involves an intensive volume reduction phase (Phase I) followed by a maintenance phase (Phase II). The aim of the maintenance phase is to promote life-long control of lymphedema through use of self-management strategies and the provision of ongoing reduction therapies as needed. Compression therapies are the mainstay of lymphedema self-management. Poor adherence to self-management practices has been associated with increased volume and progression of lymphedema to more advanced stages, supporting the importance of education and regular monitoring to promote adherence to the Phase II maintenance recommendations. In this editorial, we provide consensus recommendations on the essential components of the maintenance phase, including education, skin care practices, managing infection/cellulitis, compression therapies, health and weight management, exercise, and ongoing follow-up care.

Squamous cell carcinoma (SCC) is one of the most common malignancies involving the parotid gland, but it has been recognized that the vast majority of parotid SCC represents metastases, especially from the ipsilateral facial skin. Bona fide primary SCC of the parotid is so rare that it is unclear whether it truly exists at all. We sought to molecularly characterize cases diagnosed as primary parotid gland SCC to see if they possess a unique genetic makeup.We identified cases in our archives which had been diagnosed as primary SCC of the parotid gland. In all cases, metastatic disease was excluded by a thorough history and physical examination. Cases with histologic evidence of a precursor neoplasm (e.g., carcinoma ex-pleomorphic adenoma) were also excluded. Targeted next-generation sequencing (NGS) was attempted on all cases.Six cases diagnosed as primary parotid SCC were identified, arising in 4 males and 2 females ranging from 8 to 73 years (mean, 51.8 years). All cases exhibited keratinization and unequivocal invasion. Four of 6 appeared to be arising from cystically dilated ducts. Five of 6 exhibited well-developed cellular atypia; the remaining case, while cytologically bland, demonstrated perineural invasion. Targeted NGS was successful in 5 of 6 cases. Two SCC harbored several mutations in a mutational profile reminiscent of SCCs seen in other organs. One case harbored YAP1::MAML2, a fusion previously reported in porocarcinoma and other neoplasms. One case harbored IRF2BP2::RUNX2, and presumably represents keratocystoma or SCC ex-keratocystoma. Finally, one case an increase of C > T mutations consistent with ultraviolet damage, suggesting that this case represented a cryptic metastasis from cutaneous SCC.Our analysis did not confirm a unifying genetic signature for purported primary parotid SCC. Indeed, our findings suggest that true primary parotid gland SCC is even rarer than already believed. In our 5 cases with results, NGS findings demonstrated that one was likely a keratocystoma, one a cryptic metastasis from a cutaneous SCC, and one a porocarcinoma, either metastatic or primary. The two remaining cases had complex genotypes reminiscent of SCCs from other sites. This may be the signature of genuine parotid primary SCC, but metastasis from an SCC from another organ cannot be excluded. Accordingly, a diagnosis of primary parotid gland SCC should be viewed with skepticism.

It has long been widely acknowledged that ultraviolet (UV) light is an environment risk factor that can lead to cancer, particularly skin cancer. However, it is worth noting that UV radiation holds potential for cancer treatment as a relatively high-energy electromagnetic wave. With the help of nanomaterials, the role of UV radiation has caught increasing attention in cancer treatment. In this review, we briefly summarized types of UV-induced cancers, including malignant melanoma, squamous cell carcinoma, basal cell carcinoma, Merkel cell carcinoma. Importantly, we discussed the primary mechanisms underlying UV carcinogenesis, including mutations by DNA damage, immunosuppression, inflammation and epigenetic alterations. Historically limited by its shallow penetration depth, the introduction of nanomaterials has dramatically transformed the utilization of UV light in cancer treatment. The direct effect of UV light itself generally leads to the suppression of cancer cell growth and the initiation of apoptosis and ferroptosis. It can also be utilized to activate photosensitizers for reactive oxygen species (ROS) production, sensitize radiotherapy and achieve controlled drug release. Finally, we comprehensively weigh the significant risks and limitations associated with the therapeutic use of UV radiation. And the contradictory effect of UV exposure in promoting and inhibiting tumor has been discussed. This review provides clues for potential clinical therapy as well as future study directions in the UV radiation field. The precise delivery and control of UV light or nanomaterials and the wavelength as well as dose effects of UV light are needed for a thorough understanding of UV radiation.

Basal cell carcinoma (BCC) is a slowly progressive, locally aggressive and rarely metastasizing cancer, and although its mortality is low, its morbidity and cost of disease are high. While BCC is more common, cutaneous malignant melanoma (CMM) is significant due to its higher mortality rate. These patients can be treated, but recurrence, metastasis and mortality may occur in such patients. Various environmental, phenotypic and genotypic factors, especially ultraviolet (UV) radiations, play a role in the etiology of BCC and CMM. Histopathological examination continues to be the "gold standard" in their diagnosis. Spexin (SPX) and DARS2 are newly discovered proteins linked to many diseases, including cancer. These proteins may have an effect on the development and expression of skin cancers such as BCC and CMM. In this study, we evaluated the potential of SPX and DARS2 expressions as immunohistochemical biomarkers in the differential diagnosis of BCC and CMM. This study was conducted retrospectively using samples taken from the pathology laboratory. A total of 180 patient samples were used. The control group consisted of healthy skin tissues of the patients, and the other groups consisted of BCC and CMM tissues of the same patients. Tissue samples of all three groups were evaluated immunohistochemically with SPX and DARS2. The immunoreactivity of SPX was found to be higher in BCC and CMM tissue samples than in healthy skin tissues in the control group. DARS2 immunoreactivity was found to be higher in CMM tissues compared to the other two groups, and statistically significant in BCC tissues when compared with healthy control group tissues. SPX can be used as an immunohistochemical biomarker in the diagnosis of BCC and CMM. Since DARS2 expression is statistically more significant in CMM tissues than in BCC tissues, it can be used in differential diagnosis.

We aimed to assess the differential efficacy and safety of androgen receptor pathway inhibitors (ARPI), such as abiraterone, enzalutamide, and apalutamide, in patients with metastatic hormone-sensitive prostate cancer (mHSPC) in a real-world practice setting.

PIF1 is a conserved helicase and G4 DNA binding and unwinding enzyme, with roles in genome stability. Human PIF1 (hPIF1) is poorly understood, but its functions can become critical for tumour cell survival during oncogene-driven replication stress. Here we report the discovery, via an X-ray crystallographic fragment screen (XChem), of hPIF1 DNA binding and unwinding inhibitors. A structure was obtained with a 4-phenylthiazol-2-amine fragment bound in a pocket between helicase domains 2A and 2B, with additional contacts to Valine 258 from domain 1A. The compound makes specific interactions, notably through Leucine 548 and Alanine 551, that constrain conformational adjustments between domains 2A and 2B, previously linked to ATP hydrolysis and DNA unwinding. We next synthesized a range of related compounds and characterized their effects on hPIF1 DNA-binding and helicase activity in vitro, expanding the structure activity relationship (SAR) around the initial hit. A systematic analysis of clinical cancer databases is also presented here, supporting the notion that hPIF1 upregulation may represent a specific cancer cell vulnerability. The research demonstrates that hPIF1 is a tractable target through 4-phenylthiazol-2-amine derivatives as inhibitors of its helicase action, setting a foundation for creation of a novel class of anti-cancer therapeutics.

IgA vasculitis (IgAV) is a pediatric disease with skin and systemic manifestations. Here, we conducted genome, transcriptome, and proteome-wide association studies in 2,170 IgAV cases and 5,928 controls, generated IgAV-specific maps of gene expression and splicing from blood of 255 pediatric cases, and reconstructed myeloid-specific regulatory networks to define disease master regulators modulated by the newly identified disease driver genes. We observed significant association at the <i>HLA</i>-<i>DRB1</i> (OR=1.55, P=1.1×10<sup>-25</sup>) and fine-mapped specific amino-acid risk substitutions in DRβ1. We discovered two novel non-HLA loci: <i>FCAR</i> (OR=1.51, P=1.0×10<sup>-20</sup>) encoding a myeloid IgA receptor FcαR, and <i>INPP5D</i> (OR=1.34, P=2.2×10<sup>-9</sup>) encoding a known inhibitor of FcαR signaling. The <i>FCAR</i> risk locus co-localized with a cis-eQTL increasing <i>FCAR</i> expression; the risk alleles disrupted a <i>PRDM1</i> binding motif within a myeloid enhancer of <i>FCAR</i>. Another risk locus was associated with a higher genetically predicted levels of plasma IL6R. The <i>IL6R</i> risk haplotype carried a missense variant contributing to accelerated cleavage of IL6R into a soluble form. Using systems biology approaches, we prioritized IgAV master regulators co-modulated by <i>FCAR</i>, <i>INPP5D</i> and <i>IL6R</i> in myeloid cells. We additionally identified 21 shared loci in a cross-phenotype analysis of IgAV with IgA nephropathy, including novel loci <i>PAID4, WLS</i>, and <i>ANKRD55</i>.

Antiphospholipid syndrome (APS), cryoglobulinemia, and monoclonal gammopathies are variably accompanied by thrombotic complications. We describe a patient with recurrent skin microvascular thrombosis, APS, cryoglobulinemia, marginal zone lymphoma, and IgMκ monoclonal gammopathy, responsive to chemoimmunotherapy. The cryoglobulin fraction contained the IgMκ paraprotein, while antiphospholipid antibodies (aPL) were predominantly in the cryosupernatant. A retrospective analysis of aPL-positive patients in our institution showed that 8.1% co-expressed monoclonal gammopathy. These overlap patients had thrombotic complications and most had recurrences. Patients with multiple gammopathies of thrombotic significance may have several autoantibodies and constitute a high-risk group.

Toxic epidermal necrolysis (TEN) is a fatal drug-induced skin reaction triggered by common medications and is an emerging public health issue<sup>1-3</sup>. Patients with TEN undergo severe and sudden epidermal detachment caused by keratinocyte cell death. Although molecular mechanisms that drive keratinocyte cell death have been proposed, the main drivers remain unknown, and there is no effective therapy for TEN<sup>4-6</sup>. Here, to systematically map molecular changes that are associated with TEN and identify potential druggable targets, we utilized deep visual proteomics, which provides single-cell-based, cell-type-resolution proteomics<sup>7,8</sup>. We analysed formalin-fixed, paraffin-embedded archived skin tissue biopsies of three types of cutaneous drug reactions with varying severity and quantified more than 5,000 proteins in keratinocytes and skin-infiltrating immune cells. This revealed a marked enrichment of type I and type II interferon signatures in the immune cell and keratinocyte compartment of patients with TEN, as well as phosphorylated STAT1 activation. Targeted inhibition with the pan-JAK inhibitor tofacitinib in vitro reduced keratinocyte-directed cytotoxicity. In vivo oral administration of tofacitinib, baricitinib or the JAK1-specific inhibitors abrocitinib or upadacitinib ameliorated clinical and histological disease severity in two distinct mouse models of TEN. Crucially, treatment with JAK inhibitors (JAKi) was safe and associated with rapid cutaneous re-epithelialization and recovery in seven patients with TEN. This study uncovers the JAK/STAT and interferon signalling pathways as key pathogenic drivers of TEN and demonstrates the potential of targeted JAKi as a curative therapy.

Vitiligo is a skin disorder that is associated with a decreased risk of skin cancer, but it can lead to increased susceptibility to sunburn, psychological distress, and disruptions in daily life, consists of two primary subtypes: segmental and nonsegmental vitiligo, each with distinct underlying mechanisms. However, the reliable identification of diagnostic markers and the ability to differentiate between these subtypes have remained elusive challenges. This study aims to pioneer predictive algorithms for vitiligo diagnosis, harnessing the capabilities of AI (Artificial Intelligence) to amalgamate multisource data and uncover essential features for distinguishing vitiligo subtypes.An ensemble algorithm was thoughtfully developed for vitiligo diagnosis, utilizing a spectrum of machine learning techniques to evaluate the likelihood of vitiligo, whether segmental or nonsegmental. Diverse machine learning methodologies were applied to distinguish between healthy individuals and vitiligo patients, as well as to differentiate segmental from nonsegmental vitiligo. The ensemble algorithm achieved a remarkable AUC (Area Under the Curve) of 0.99 and an accuracy of 0.98 for diagnosing vitiligo. Furthermore, in predicting the development of segmental or nonsegmental vitiligo, the model exhibited an AUC of 0.79 and an accuracy of 0.73. Key parameters for vitiligo identification encompassed factors such as age, FBC (full blood count)-neutrophils, FBC-lymphocytes, LKF(liver and kidney function)-direct bilirubin, LKF-total bilirubin, and LKF-total protein levels. In contrast, vital indicators for monitoring the progression of segmental and nonsegmental vitiligo included FBC-B lymphocyte count, FBC-NK (Natural Killer) cell count, and LKF-alkaline phosphatase levels. This retrospective study underscores the potential of AI-driven analysis in identifying significant risk factors for vitiligo and predicting its subtypes at an early stage. These findings offer great promise for the development of effective diagnostic tools and the implementation of personalized treatment approaches in managing this challenging skin disorder.

The global aging population is leading to an increasing incidence of cancer, exacerbating the global burden of cancer. By 2040, the total number of cancer patients worldwide is projected to reach 28 million. With advancements in tumor molecular biology research and the widespread application of next-generation sequencing technology, precision treatment for cancer has made significant progress in clinical settings. Selective targeting of the <i>Braf</i> gene has emerged as one of the early successful cases of precision medicine for tumors. <i>Braf</i> gene mutations can result in unrestricted activation of downstream kinases in the mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK) cell signaling pathway, promoting rapid proliferation of tumor cells. BRAF inhibitors, either as monotherapy or in combination with MEK inhibitor, have been approved for various cancers, including melanoma, non-small cell lung cancer, thyroid cancer, colorectal cancer and glioma, among others. Clinical studies related to BRAF inhibitors are continuously exploring new applications. However, there is currently no consensus on the use of BRAF inhibitors in the diagnosis and treatment of multiple solid cancers in China. This article integrates clinical evidence of <i>Braf</i> mutations in multiple solid cancers to establish an expert consensus on the diagnosis and treatment of malignant solid cancers with <i>Braf</i> gene mutations. The goal is to promote and guide the standardized application of BRAF inhibitors.

In 2023, a Germany-wide survey on the current clinical practice of three different large field irradiation techniques (LFIT), namely total body irradiation (TBI), total skin irradiation (TSI) and craniospinal irradiation (CSI), was conducted covering different aspects of the irradiation process, e.g., the irradiation unit and technique, dosimetrical aspects and treatment planning as well as quality assurance. The responses provided a deep insight into the applied approaches showing a high heterogeneity between participating centers for all three large field irradiation techniques. The highest heterogeneity was found for TBI. Here, differences between centers were found in almost every aspect of the irradiation process, e.g., the irradiation technique, the prescription dose, the spared organs at risk and the applied treatment planning method. For TBI, the only agreement was found in the fractionation scheme (2 Gy/fraction, 2 fractions/day) and the dose reduction to the lung. TSI was the rarest of the three LFITs. For TSI, the only agreement was found in the use of 6 MeV when irradiating with electrons. The reported approaches of CSI were closest to standard radiotherapy, using no CSI-specific irradiation techniques or treatment planning methods. For CSI, the only agreement was found in the prescribed dose to the brain (50 - 60 Gy). When asking for future requirements, participating centers considered the lack of standardization as the most important future challenge and suggested to perform (retrospective) patient studies. The results of such studies can then serve as a basis for new and improved guidelines.

Cancer, characterized by the uncontrolled division of abnormal cells that harm body tissues, necessitates early detection for effective treatment. Medical imaging is crucial for identifying various cancers, yet its manual interpretation by radiologists is often subjective, labour-intensive, and time-consuming. Consequently, there is a critical need for an automated decision-making process to enhance cancer detection and diagnosis. Previously, a lot of work was done on surveys of different cancer detection methods, and most of them were focused on specific cancers and limited techniques. This study presents a comprehensive survey of cancer detection methods. It entails a review of 99 research articles collected from the Web of Science, IEEE, and Scopus databases, published between 2020 and 2024. The scope of the study encompasses 12 types of cancer, including breast, cervical, ovarian, prostate, esophageal, liver, pancreatic, colon, lung, oral, brain, and skin cancers. This study discusses different cancer detection techniques, including medical imaging data, image preprocessing, segmentation, feature extraction, deep learning and transfer learning methods, and evaluation metrics. Eventually, we summarised the datasets and techniques with research challenges and limitations. Finally, we provide future directions for enhancing cancer detection techniques.

Breast cancer is the most common invasive cancer in women worldwide, having a significant impact on women's well-being. Early diagnosis of breast cancer followed by appropriate treatment is considered the best survival factor. Microneedles (MN) have been utilized for non-invasive localized breast cancer treatment. The combination of nano-carriers with MN technology represents an appealing strategy for improving drug delivery efficacy. It is worth noting that atorvastatin (ATV) has received substantial interest as a drug with potential anticancer activity. Our study aimed to formulate an ATV-loaded bioactive pumpkin seed oil vesicular nanocarrier; pumpkisomes (PUMP) for enhanced localized delivery to breast cancer using MN. The selected PUMP formulation had a particle size of 151.8 ± 2.7 nm, zeta potential of -54.1 mV, and % entrapment efficiency of 73 %. PUMP showed a sustained ATV release, potent selective cytotoxic effect (IC<sub>50</sub> of 2.82 ± 0.02 μg/mL), enhanced internalization (2.8-fold increase compared to the free drug), and potent anti-migratory effect on MDA-MB-231 cells (21.15 ± 3.6 % wound closure compared to 80.81 ± 4.1 % for free drug). Moreover, integrating ATV-PUMP in dissolving microneedles (ATV-PUMP@dMN) showed a quick dissolution rate and appropriate mechanical strength with high piercing efficiency. ATV permeation across the skin from ATV-PUMP@dMN was also improved (1.8-fold increase compared to ATV-PUMP@gel). ATV-PUMP@dMN demonstrated an efficient anticancer effect when applied in an Ehrlich ascites mammary tumor model attaining significant improvement in ATV antiproliferative (PTEN and Ki-67), antiangiogenic (VEGF) and apoptotic (Bcl2, Bax and caspase3) effects restoring tumor biomarkers to levels comparable to the negative control group. Thus, our study presents PUMP as a novel and promising bioactive vesicular nanosystem with potential synergistic effect with ATV or other antitumor drugs. PUMP-integrated MN could be considered a promising platform for future applications in localized breast cancer therapy.

Sonodynamic anti-cancer therapy relies on the highly active singlet oxygen to induce potent cell death. However, the non-specific biodistribution of sonosensitizers post systemic administration results in a significant accumulation in the skin, and hence the daylight-induced phototoxicity. Here, we report a smart metal-organic framework-based nanocarrier with titanium dioxide (TiO<sub>2</sub>) as the sonosensitizer for reduced phototoxicity in the skin. The organic ligand bears the imidazole moiety that can facilely consume singlet oxygen in the skin without compromising the anti-cancer efficacy. The reaction between imidazole moiety and singlet oxygen was confirmed by the density functional theory (DFT). Upon light irradiation, the nanocarrier can significantly reduce the phototoxicity post light irradiation in a range of normal cells in vitro and in a mouse model in vivo. Meanwhile, the ligand contains a disulfide moiety that can deplete glutathione and orchestrate the singlet oxygen-induced toxicity in the CT-26 colon cancer cells. As a result, the nanocarrier showed superior in vivo antitumor efficacy in a CT-26 tumor-bearing mice model, leading to significant suppression of tumor growth and improved animal survival rates. The current work provides a tailored nanoscale particle engineering approach to simultaneously minimize phototoxicity in the skin and sensitize sonodynamic anti-cancer therapy.

The mango tree (Mangifera indica) produces nutrient-dense fruit that is consumed across the world. Interestingly, despite widespread consumption of its fruit and its categorization in the Anacardiaceae family, allergic reactions to the mango tree and its components are comparatively rare, sometimes manifesting as allergic contact dermatitis (ACD). Evaluation of ACD most commonly includes a thorough clinical assessment with diagnostic support from patch testing and histopathologic review following skin biopsy. In recent years, reflectance confocal microscopy (RCM) has shown promising potential to join the repertoire of diagnostic tools for ACD by enabling dynamic and high-resolution imaging of contact dermatitis in vivo. Herein, we present a unique case of mango sap-induced ACD imaged and diagnosed in real time via RCM.

The mango tree (Mangifera indica) produces nutrient-dense fruit that is consumed across the world. Interestingly, despite widespread consumption of its fruit and its categorization in the Anacardiaceae family, allergic reactions to the mango tree and its components are comparatively rare, sometimes manifesting as allergic contact dermatitis (ACD). Evaluation of ACD most commonly includes a thorough clinical assessment with diagnostic support from patch testing and histopathologic review following skin biopsy. In recent years, reflectance confocal microscopy (RCM) has shown promising potential to join the repertoire of diagnostic tools for ACD by enabling dynamic and high-resolution imaging of contact dermatitis in vivo. Herein, we present a unique case of mango sap-induced ACD imaged and diagnosed in real time via RCM.

The use of chemotherapy and radiation for cancer treatment can result in cutaneous adverse events (AEs) such as toxic erythema of chemotherapy (TEC) and radiation-induced dermatitis. High-dose vitamin D supplementation has been suggested to potentially improve and shorten recovery for these AEs, primarily based on data from case reports and case series. In this article, we discuss the role of vitamin D in the most prevalent cancers (breast and colorectal cancer) and changes in vitamin D levels after chemotherapy or radiation treatments. We also summarize reports on high-dose vitamin D supplementation for treating chemotherapy-induced and radiation-induced skin toxicity. Larger studies and randomized controlled trials are essential to clarify the roles of vitamin D in malignancy and in cutaneous AEs associated with cancer treatment. The existing studies we reviewed lack standardized dosing regimens and exhibited heterogeneity across study populations, making it challenging to draw generalizable conclusions.

The use of chemotherapy and radiation for cancer treatment can result in cutaneous adverse events (AEs) such as toxic erythema of chemotherapy (TEC) and radiation-induced dermatitis. High-dose vitamin D supplementation has been suggested to potentially improve and shorten recovery for these AEs, primarily based on data from case reports and case series. In this article, we discuss the role of vitamin D in the most prevalent cancers (breast and colorectal cancer) and changes in vitamin D levels after chemotherapy or radiation treatments. We also summarize reports on high-dose vitamin D supplementation for treating chemotherapy-induced and radiation-induced skin toxicity. Larger studies and randomized controlled trials are essential to clarify the roles of vitamin D in malignancy and in cutaneous AEs associated with cancer treatment. The existing studies we reviewed lack standardized dosing regimens and exhibited heterogeneity across study populations, making it challenging to draw generalizable conclusions.

The use of chemotherapy and radiation for cancer treatment can result in cutaneous adverse events (AEs) such as toxic erythema of chemotherapy (TEC) and radiation-induced dermatitis. High-dose vitamin D supplementation has been suggested to potentially improve and shorten recovery for these AEs, primarily based on data from case reports and case series. In this article, we discuss the role of vitamin D in the most prevalent cancers (breast and colorectal cancer) and changes in vitamin D levels after chemotherapy or radiation treatments. We also summarize reports on high-dose vitamin D supplementation for treating chemotherapy-induced and radiation-induced skin toxicity. Larger studies and randomized controlled trials are essential to clarify the roles of vitamin D in malignancy and in cutaneous AEs associated with cancer treatment. The existing studies we reviewed lack standardized dosing regimens and exhibited heterogeneity across study populations, making it challenging to draw generalizable conclusions.

A major therapeutic barrier in melanoma is the coexistence of diverse cellular states marked by distinct metabolic traits. Transitioning from a proliferative to an invasive melanoma phenotype is coupled with increased ferroptosis vulnerability. However, the regulatory circuits controlling ferroptosis susceptibility across melanoma cell states are unknown. In this work, we identified Apolipoprotein E (<i>APOE</i>) as the top lipid-metabolism gene segregating the melanoma MITF<sup>high</sup>/AXL<sup>low</sup> proliferative/ferroptosis-resistant from MITF<sup>low</sup>/AXL<sup>high</sup> invasive/ferroptosis-sensitive state. Mechanistically, ApoE secreted by the MITF<sup>high</sup>/AXL<sup>low</sup> cells protects the invasive phenotype from ferroptosis-inducing agents by reducing the content of peroxidation-prone polyunsaturated fatty acids and boosting GPX4 levels both in vitro and in vivo. Whole-exome sequencing indicates that <i>APOE</i><sup>high</sup> expression in patients with melanoma is associated with resistance to ferroptosis, regardless of <i>APOE</i> germline status. In aggregate, we found a ferroptosis-resistance mechanism between melanoma cell states relying on secreted ApoE and <i>APOE</i><sup>high</sup> expression as a potential biomarker for poor ferroptosis response in melanoma.

Amelanotic/hypomelanotic melanoma (AHM) may be difficult to diagnose because of a lack of pigmentation. To evaluate whether dermoscopy can be useful for the diagnosis of early AHM, 133 digital dermoscopic images of lesions histopathologically diagnosed as amelanotic/hypomelanotic superficial spreading melanoma with ≤1 mm thickness (AHSSMs) (n = 27), amelanotic/hypomelanotic non-melanocytic lesions (AHNMLs) (e.g., seborrhoeic keratosis and basal cell carcinoma) (n = 79), and amelanotic/hypomelanotic benign melanocytic lesions (AHBMLs) (e.g., compound and dermal nevi) (n = 27), were dermoscopically assessed by three blinded dermatologists. Using multivariate analysis, we found a significantly increased risk of diagnosing AHSSM versus AHNML and AHBML when the lesion was characterized by the presence of more than one shade of pink (odds ratio [OR] 37.11), irregular dots/globules (OR 23.73), asymmetric pigmentation (OR 8.85), and structureless pattern (OR 7.33). In conclusion, dermoscopy may improve early AHM detection, discriminating AHSSM from amelanotic/hypomelanotic non melanoma lesions.

Sweet syndrome is a rare, etiologically unknown dermatosis that can be idiopathic or associated with certain clinical conditions. Among these conditions are infections, autoimmune diseases, inflammatory bowel diseases, vaccinations, the use of medications, and neoplasias. Hematological neoplasias, particularly acute myeloid leukemia, are the most commonly described; however, the condition may also be related to solid tumors, being those of the genitourinary tract the most associated with the syndrome. Drug-induced Sweet syndrome has also been reported; however, it is rarely seen. We report a case of 59 years old male patient with a diagnosis of carcinoma urinary bladder, who developed skin eruption after infusion of the first cycle of chemotherapy (gemcitabine and cisplatin) and resolved after treatment with steroids. The diagnosis of Sweet syndrome was confirmed only after skin biopsy, cultures and laboratory investigations. Malignancy as the cause of skin eruptions was eliminated by the fact that it occurred only after infusion of chemotherapy and the tumor was still there in the bladder, and skin eruptions did not occur after stopping steroids.

Mohs micrographic surgery (MMS) is a highly effective treatment for skin cancers, such as squamous cell carcinoma (SCC) and basal cell carcinoma (BCC), especially in cosmetically sensitive areas. Despite its high cure rates, the procedure's impact on psychosocial outcomes, influenced by demographic, clinical, psychological, and social factors, necessitates careful consideration. This review aims to identify and synthesize the predictors of psychosocial outcomes following MMS, thereby informing patient management strategies. A comprehensive search of the PubMed database was performed to select peer-reviewed studies in English that discuss these psychosocial aspects in MMS. The review identifies younger age, female gender, smoking, centrally located facial lesions and larger operative defects as factors associated with less favorable psychosocial outcomes. Conversely, patients with strong social support and better preoperative mental health tend to experience more favorable outcomes. This highlights the utility of integrating psychological evaluations and support mechanisms into treatment plans, promoting a patient-centered approach that considers the broader health and psychosocial needs of patients. The implications of this review are significant, suggesting that focusing on these psychosocial determinants allows healthcare providers to improve patient satisfaction and overall well-being.

Mohs micrographic surgery (MMS) is a highly effective treatment for skin cancers, such as squamous cell carcinoma (SCC) and basal cell carcinoma (BCC), especially in cosmetically sensitive areas. Despite its high cure rates, the procedure's impact on psychosocial outcomes, influenced by demographic, clinical, psychological, and social factors, necessitates careful consideration. This review aims to identify and synthesize the predictors of psychosocial outcomes following MMS, thereby informing patient management strategies. A comprehensive search of the PubMed database was performed to select peer-reviewed studies in English that discuss these psychosocial aspects in MMS. The review identifies younger age, female gender, smoking, centrally located facial lesions and larger operative defects as factors associated with less favorable psychosocial outcomes. Conversely, patients with strong social support and better preoperative mental health tend to experience more favorable outcomes. This highlights the utility of integrating psychological evaluations and support mechanisms into treatment plans, promoting a patient-centered approach that considers the broader health and psychosocial needs of patients. The implications of this review are significant, suggesting that focusing on these psychosocial determinants allows healthcare providers to improve patient satisfaction and overall well-being.

Over the past decade, advancements in molecular biology have contributed to changes in the diagnostic classification of Spitz neoplasms, including Spitz nevi, atypical Spitz tumors, and Spitz melanomas. The recent World Health Organization classification of skin tumors identifies fusion kinases, including NTRK1, NTRK2, and NTRK3, as critical drivers of these lesions. New fusion genes have continued to expand the spectrum of known molecular alterations, particularly within the category of Spitz NTRK-rearranged lesions. We present 2 new cases of NTRK-rearranged Spitz lesions: an atypical Spitz tumor with common LMNA::NTRK1 fusion and an atypical Spitz tumor with a rare PRDX1::NTRK1 fusion. Clinical, histopathological, immunohistochemical, and molecular analyses were performed to diagnose these patients. This report adds to the growing body of knowledge on NTRK-rearranged Spitz lesions and underscores the importance of integrating molecular findings with morphological and immunohistochemical data for the accurate classification and understanding of these neoplasms.

STK11 germline pathogenic variants are typically associated with Peutz-Jeghers syndrome, an autosomal dominant disease characterized by hamartomatous polyps in the gastrointestinal tract, hyperpigmented patches, and increased risk of stomach, colorectal, small bowel, and breast cancers (Beggs et al., 2010). Mutations in this gene have also been identified in skin, pancreatic, testicular, and stromal ovarian cancer (Fagerberg et al., 2014). To date, there have been less than 30 cases of ovarian cancer reported associated with mutated STK11 (Bennett et al., 2021). In this report, we discuss a rare case of a STK11 adnexal tumor in a 39-year-old woman previously diagnosed with malignant mesothelioma. After 33 months with no evidence of disease following cytoreductive surgery with HIPEC and adjuvant chemotherapy, a new retroperitoneal lesion was noted on imaging. After resection, molecular testing indicated an STK11 mutation, and histology was consistent with an STK11 adnexal tumor. A high index of suspicion is required to make the diagnosis of STK11 adnexal tumor due to its non-distinct pathology and IHC staining. Due to the rarity of this neoplasm, analysis of current and future cases of the STK11 adnexal tumor is necessary to understand its pathogenesis, genetic mutational analysis, clinical course, and best treatment options.

STK11 germline pathogenic variants are typically associated with Peutz-Jeghers syndrome, an autosomal dominant disease characterized by hamartomatous polyps in the gastrointestinal tract, hyperpigmented patches, and increased risk of stomach, colorectal, small bowel, and breast cancers (Beggs et al., 2010). Mutations in this gene have also been identified in skin, pancreatic, testicular, and stromal ovarian cancer (Fagerberg et al., 2014). To date, there have been less than 30 cases of ovarian cancer reported associated with mutated STK11 (Bennett et al., 2021). In this report, we discuss a rare case of a STK11 adnexal tumor in a 39-year-old woman previously diagnosed with malignant mesothelioma. After 33 months with no evidence of disease following cytoreductive surgery with HIPEC and adjuvant chemotherapy, a new retroperitoneal lesion was noted on imaging. After resection, molecular testing indicated an STK11 mutation, and histology was consistent with an STK11 adnexal tumor. A high index of suspicion is required to make the diagnosis of STK11 adnexal tumor due to its non-distinct pathology and IHC staining. Due to the rarity of this neoplasm, analysis of current and future cases of the STK11 adnexal tumor is necessary to understand its pathogenesis, genetic mutational analysis, clinical course, and best treatment options.

STK11 germline pathogenic variants are typically associated with Peutz-Jeghers syndrome, an autosomal dominant disease characterized by hamartomatous polyps in the gastrointestinal tract, hyperpigmented patches, and increased risk of stomach, colorectal, small bowel, and breast cancers (Beggs et al., 2010). Mutations in this gene have also been identified in skin, pancreatic, testicular, and stromal ovarian cancer (Fagerberg et al., 2014). To date, there have been less than 30 cases of ovarian cancer reported associated with mutated STK11 (Bennett et al., 2021). In this report, we discuss a rare case of a STK11 adnexal tumor in a 39-year-old woman previously diagnosed with malignant mesothelioma. After 33 months with no evidence of disease following cytoreductive surgery with HIPEC and adjuvant chemotherapy, a new retroperitoneal lesion was noted on imaging. After resection, molecular testing indicated an STK11 mutation, and histology was consistent with an STK11 adnexal tumor. A high index of suspicion is required to make the diagnosis of STK11 adnexal tumor due to its non-distinct pathology and IHC staining. Due to the rarity of this neoplasm, analysis of current and future cases of the STK11 adnexal tumor is necessary to understand its pathogenesis, genetic mutational analysis, clinical course, and best treatment options.

Healthy skin is essential for balanced health. Currently, skin diseases are considered a major global health issue, impacting individuals of all ages. Skin conditions can vary broadly, ranging from common issues like acne and eczema to more serious diseases such as psoriasis, melanoma, and other types of skin cancer. In recent years, computational methods have appeared as powerful tools for explaining the lurking mechanisms of skin diseases and the advancement of the discovery regarding updated therapeutics. This review spotlights the notable researches that have been performed in using computational approaches such as virtual screening, molecular modelling, and molecular dynamics simulations to discover potential treatments for dermatological conditions such as eczema, psoriasis, acne vulgaris, skin cancer, and tyrosinase-related disorders. Moreover, using in silico methods, researchers have explored the molecular interactions between cosmetic actives and skin targets, providing insights into the binding affinities, stability, and efficacy of these compounds. This computational exploration allows the identification of potential off-target effects and toxicity profiles, ensuring that only the most promising candidates proceed to clinical testing. In addition, the use of molecular dynamics simulations helps to understand conformational changes and interaction dynamics over time, further refining the selection of effective cosmetic actives. Overall, the integration of computational chemistry into dermo-cosmetic research has immense potential to accelerate the discovery and development of innovative treatments to improve skin health and address dermatological concerns.

<b>Background:</b> Melanoma, or skin cancer, is a dangerous form of cancer that is the major cause of the demise of thousands of people around the world. <b>Methods:</b> In recent years, deep learning has become more popular for analyzing and detecting these medical issues. In this paper, a hybrid deep learning approach has been proposed based on U-Net for image segmentation, Inception-ResNet-v2 for feature extraction, and the Vision Transformer model with a self-attention mechanism for refining the features for early and accurate diagnosis and classification of skin cancer. Furthermore, in the proposed approach, hyperparameter tuning helps to obtain more accurate and optimized results for image classification. <b>Results:</b> Dermoscopic shots gathered by the worldwide skin imaging collaboration (ISIC2020) challenge dataset are used in the proposed research work and achieved 98.65% accuracy, 99.20% sensitivity, and 98.03% specificity, which outperforms the other existing approaches for skin cancer classification. Furthermore, the HAM10000 dataset is used for ablation studies to compare and validate the performance of the proposed approach. <b>Conclusions:</b> The achieved outcome suggests that the proposed approach would be able to serve as a valuable tool for assisting dermatologists in the early detection of melanoma.

Melanoma is one of the most aggressive forms of skin cancer. While most melanomas have a discernible primary site, a small subset, approximately 3.2%, present as a metastatic disease without an identifiable primary origin, a condition known as melanoma of unknown primary (MUP). Unusual cases of primary melanoma have also been previously reported in the respiratory, gastrointestinal, and urogenital tracts. MUP typically is found in lymph nodes, subcutaneous sites, and visceral organs, with hypotheses about its origin including spontaneous primary tumor regression and ectopic melanocytes. MUP presents unique challenges in diagnosis and treatment due to the absence of a detectable primary tumor. Understanding its genetic and molecular features, epidemiology, prognostic factors, and treatment options is crucial for optimizing patient care and outcomes in this subset of melanoma patients. We conducted an extensive literature review triggered by a case report of a patient with suspected MUP. A 51-year-old woman was transferred from another hospital where an incision was performed for a suspected superinfected hematoma of the left thigh. Since the patient showed high leukocytosis and redness and swelling of the thigh, local debridement, drainage, and excisional biopsy of the tumor mass were performed in our unit in the emergency setting, and the tumor was taken for histopathology evaluation. Intraoperatively, the mass appeared nonspecific. The permanent histopathology report established a diagnosis of melanoma, with tumor proliferation also involving lymphoid tissue, and despite broad clinical and imagistic assessments, the primary melanoma could not be identified. Clinicians must be aware of the varied clinical manifestations of malignant melanoma, especially in cases of occult melanoma where the primary site is not evident.

The high cancer burden in the Middle East and North Africa (MENA region) is coupled with an increasing cancer incidence. While the MENA region constitutes 6% of the world's population, it remains underrepresented in clinical trials. Cutaneous T-cell lymphomas (CTCLs) represent a heterogeneous group of rare extranodal non-Hodgkin lymphomas with variable clinical presentation. In the MENA region, where darker skin colors are more common than in the West, CTCL generally presents at a younger age and with distinct clinical features that necessitate special expertise and management across disciplines: rare forms of CTCL are more common (hypo- and hyperpigmented MF) and a higher prevalence of pediatric MF is noticed. The multidisciplinary approach to cancer management is growing worldwide and is necessary for the comprehensive management of CTCL. The MENA CTCL group was established with the aim of creating a collaborative environment for the diagnosis and treatment of CTCL in the region. Its first meeting was held in May 2023. The group plans to increase the global representation of the MENA region and establish CTCL registries and patient advocacy groups in the region.

Xeroderma pigmentosum (XP) is a very rare recessive disease caused by the incapacity to resolve ultraviolet-induced DNA lesions through Nucleotide Excision Repair (NER). Most XP patients suffer from aggressive skin carcinoma and melanoma at a very early age (<8). Our previous results showed that primary XP fibroblasts isolated from healthy (non-photo-exposed) skin negatively impact the extracellular matrix and fail to activate the innate immune system. Here, we show for the first time that XP-C fibroblasts also play a major role in cancer cell invasion ex vivo and in vivo through the overexpression of Hepatocyte Growth Factor/Scatter Factor (HGF/SF) in the absence of genotoxic attacks. The use of inhibitors of the activation of the HGF/SF pathway counteracted the effects of XP fibroblasts on the growth of cancer cells, suggesting new perspectives in the care of XP patients.

Immunotherapies, including checkpoint inhibitor antibodies, have precipitated significant improvements in clinical outcomes for melanoma. However, approximately half of patients do not benefit from approved treatments. Additionally, apart from Tebentafusp, which is approved for the treatment of uveal melanoma, there is a lack of immunotherapies directly focused on melanoma cells. This is partly due to few available targets, especially those expressed on the cancer cell surface. Chondroitin sulfate proteoglycan 4 (CSPG4) is a cell surface molecule overexpressed in human melanoma, with restricted distribution and low expression in non-malignant tissues and involved in several cancer-promoting and dissemination pathways. Here, we summarize the current understanding of the expression and functional significance of CSPG4 in health and melanoma, and we outline immunotherapeutic strategies. These include monoclonal antibodies, antibody-drug conjugates (ADCs), chimeric-antigen receptor (CAR) T cells, and other strategies such as anti-idiotypic and mimotope vaccines to raise immune responses against CSPG4-expressing melanomas. Several showed promising functions in preclinical models of melanoma, yet few have reached clinical testing, and none are approved for therapeutic use. Obstacles preventing that progress include limited knowledge of CSPG4 function in human cancer and a lack of in vivo models that adequately represent patient immune responses and human melanoma biology. Despite several challenges, immunotherapy directed to CSPG4-expressing melanoma harbors significant potential to transform the treatment landscape.

In recent decades, there has been an increase in European wild ungulate populations, often associated with a decline in health and spread of disease. This is true for the roe deer (<i>Capreolus capreolus</i>), the most common European cervid, with populations apparently affected by fibropapillomatosis, an increasingly common cancer. To date, however, there has been little research into this disease, thus many interactions remain unclear and descriptions of tumour composition are poorly validated. The main aim of the present study was to evaluate the presence and concentration of toxic heavy metals in roe deer skin tumours. Our results confirmed the presence of virtually all the metals tested for, i.e., Pb, Hg, Cd, As, Cr, Mn, Al, Co, Cu, Ni, Se, Zn, and Fe, with the highest average concentrations found for Cr (0.99 mg/kg<sup>-1</sup> ± 2.23 SD), Cd (0.03 mg/kg<sup>-1</sup> ± 0.03 SD), and Hg (0.02 mg/kg<sup>-1</sup> ± 0.02 SD), exceeding FAO limits for meat from slaughtered animals. We also observed a significant positive relationship between heavy metal concentration and age, especially for Pb, As, Hg, Mn, Se, Al, Zn, and Ni. Our findings provide a strong baseline for further research on the impact of fibropapillomatosis, not only on the welfare and health status of game but also on the final consumer of venison, which in many respects is regarded as a high-quality, ecological, and renewable wild resource. While deer with this disease are not considered qualitatively or medically defective, they could represent a potential reservoir of substances toxic to humans and could affect substance levels in adjacent tissues or the animal as a whole.

Metastatic primary cutaneous melanoma is a frequently fatal disease despite recent therapeutic advances. Biomarkers to stratify patients' prognosis are lacking. MicroRNAs (miRNAs) are small, non-coding RNAs. We aimed to determine the expression of miR-211-5p in primary tumors and metastases of malignant melanoma and its potential use as a prognostic biomarker. We performed in situ hybridization for miRNA-211-5p on 109 FFPE melanoma samples from 76 patients, including 31 paired primary tumor/metastasis samples. For validation, we performed in silico analyses of TCGA skin cutaneous melanoma (SKCM) cohort. High miR-211-5p expression was more frequent in primary tumors (70.8%) compared to metastases (39.3%). In metastases, it was associated with a significantly worse overall survival. Data from TCGA SKCM cohort confirmed that high miR-211-5p expression in melanoma metastases, but not primary tumors, is associated with worse overall survival. MiR-211-5p expression in metastases is associated with a shorter survival, emphasizing the potential of miR-211-5p as a risk predictor for a less favorable clinical outcome in metastatic disease. In situ hybridization could be implemented in a routine laboratory workflow and can be performed on diagnostic tissue.

Neurofibromatosis type 1 (NF1) is an autosomal dominant genetic disorder characterized by the predisposition to develop tumors such as malignant peripheral nerve sheath tumors (MPNSTs) which represents the primary cause of death for NF1-affected patients. Regardless of the high incidence and mortality, the molecular mechanisms underneath MPNST growth and metastatic progression remain poorly understood. In this proof-of-concept study, we performed somatic whole-exome sequencing (WES) to profile the genomic alterations in four samples from a patient with NF1-associated MPNST, consisting of a benign plexiform neurofibroma, a primary MPNST, and metastases from lung and skin tissues. By comparing genomic patterns, we identified a high level of variability across samples with distinctive genetic changes which allow for the definition of profiles of the early phase with respect to the late metastatic stages. Pathogenic and likely pathogenic variants were abundant in the primary tumor, whereas the metastatic samples exhibited a high level of copy-number variations (CNVs), highlighting a possible genomic instability in the late phases. The most known MPNST-related genes, such as <i>TP53</i> and <i>SUZ12</i>, were identified in CNVs observed within the primary tumor. Pathway analysis of altered early genes in MPNST pointed to a potential role in cell motility, division and metabolism. Moreover, we employed survival analysis with the <i>TCGA</i> sarcoma genomic dataset on 262 affected patients, in order to corroborate the predictive significance of the identified early and metastatic MPNST driver genes. Specifically, the expression changes related to the mutated genes, such as in <i>RBMX</i>, <i>PNPLA6</i> and <i>AGAP2</i>, were associated with reduced patient survival, distinguishing them as potential prognostic biomarkers. This study underlines the relevance of integrating genomic results with clinical information for early diagnosis and prognostic understanding of tumor aggressiveness.

<i>Lepidium peruvianum</i>-an edible herbaceous biennial plant distributed in the Andes-has been used for centuries as food and as a natural medicine in treating hormonal disorders, as an antidepressant, and as an anti-osteoporotic agent. The presented study aims to prove its beneficial cosmetic and chemopreventive properties by testing the antiradical, whitening, cytotoxic, and anticancer properties of differently colored phenotypes that were extracted using three solvents: methanol, water, and chloroform, with the help of the chemometric approach to provide evidence on the impact of single glucosinolanes (seven identified compounds in the HPLC-ESI-QTOF-MS/MS analysis) on the biological activity of the total extracts. The tested extracts exhibited moderate antiradical activity, with the methanolic extract from yellow and grey maca phenotypes scavenging 49.9 ± 8.96% and 48.8% ± 0.44% of DPPH radical solution at a concentration of 1 mg/mL, respectively. Grey maca was the most active tyrosinase inhibitor, with 72.86 ± 3.42% of the enzyme activity calculated for the water extract and 75.66 ± 6.21% for the chloroform extract. The studies in cells showed no cytotoxicity towards the human keratinocyte line HaCaT in all studied extracts and a marked inhibition of cell viability towards the G361 melanoma cell line, which the presence of pent-4-enylglucosinolate, glucotropaeolin, and glucoalyssin in the samples could have caused. Given all biological activity tests combined, the three mentioned compounds were shown to be the most significant positive contributors to the results obtained, and the grey maca water extract was found to be the best source of the former compound among the tested samples.

Actinic keratosis (AK) is characterized by a reddish or occasionally skin-toned rough patch on sun-damaged skin, and it is regarded as a precursor to squamous cell carcinoma (SCC). Photodynamic therapy (PDT), utilizing 5-aminolevulinic acid (ALA) along with red light, is a recognized treatment option for AK that is limited by the penetration depth of light and the distribution of the photosensitizer into the skin. Cold atmospheric plasma (CAP) is a partially ionized gas with permeability-enhancing and anti-cancer properties. This study analyzed, in vitro, whether a combined treatment of CAP and ALA-PDT may improve the efficacy of the treatment. In addition, the effect of the application sequence of ALA and CAP was investigated using in vitro assays and the molecular characterization of human oral SCC cell lines (SCC-9, SCC-15, SCC-111), human cutaneous SCC cell lines (SCL-1, SCL-2, A431), and normal human epidermal keratinocytes (HEKn). The anti-tumor effect was determined by migration, invasion, and apoptosis assays and supported the improved efficacy of ALA-PDT in combination with CAP. However, the application sequence ALA-CAP-red light seems to be more efficacious than CAP-ALA-red light, which is probably due to increased intracellular ROS levels when ALA is applied first, followed by CAP and red light treatment. Furthermore, the expression of apoptosis- and senescence-related molecules (caspase-3, -6, -9, p16<sup>INK4a</sup>, p21<sup>CIP1</sup>) was increased, and different genes of the junctional network (ZO-1, CX31, CLDN1, CTNNB1) were induced after the combined treatment of CAP plus ALA-PDT. HEKn, however, were much less affected than SCC cells. Overall, the results show that CAP may improve the anti-tumor effects of conventional ALA-PDT on SCC cells. Whether this combined application is successful in treating AK in vivo has to be carefully examined in follow-up studies.

The skin epidermis provides a barrier that is imperative for preventing transepidermal water loss (TEWL) and protecting against environmental stimuli. The underlying molecular mechanisms for regulating barrier functions and sustaining its integrity remain unclear. RORα is a nuclear receptor highly expressed in the epidermis of normal skin. Clinical studies showed that the epidermal RORα expression is significantly reduced in the lesions of multiple inflammatory skin diseases. In this study, we investigate the central roles of RORα in stabilizing skin barrier function using mice with an epidermis-specific <i>Rora</i> gene deletion (<i>Rora<sup>EKO</sup></i>). While lacking spontaneous skin lesions or dermatitis, <i>Rora<sup>EKO</sup></i> mice exhibited an elevated TEWL rate and skin characteristics of barrier dysfunction. Immunostaining and Western blot analysis revealed low levels of cornified envelope proteins in the <i>Rora<sup>EKO</sup></i> epidermis, suggesting disturbed late epidermal differentiation. In addition, an RNA-seq analysis showed the altered expression of genes related to "keratinization" and "lipid metabolism" in RORα deficient epidermis. A lipidomic analysis further uncovered an aberrant ceramide composition in the <i>Rora<sup>EKO</sup></i> epidermis. Importantly, epidermal <i>Rora</i> ablation greatly exaggerated percutaneous allergic inflammatory responses to oxazolone in an allergic contact dermatitis (ACD) mouse model. Our results substantiate the essence of epidermal RORα in maintaining late keratinocyte differentiation and normal barrier function while suppressing cutaneous inflammation.

Genome instability relies on preserving the chromatin structure, with any histone imbalances threating DNA integrity. Histone synthesis occurs in the cytoplasm, followed by a maturation process before their nuclear translocation. This maturation involves protein folding and the establishment of post-translational modifications. Disruptions in this pathway hinder chromatin assembly and contribute to genome instability. JMJD1B, a histone demethylase, not only regulates gene expression but also ensures a proper supply of histones H3 and H4 for the chromatin assembly. Reduced JMJD1B levels lead to the cytoplasmic accumulation of histones, causing defects in the chromatin assembly and resulting in DNA damage. To investigate the role of JMJD1B in regulating genome stability and the malignancy of melanoma tumors, we used a JMJD1B/KDM3B knockout in B16F10 mouse melanoma cells to perform tumorigenic and genome instability assays. Additionally, we analyzed the transcriptomic data of human cutaneous melanoma tumors. Our results show the enhanced tumorigenic properties of JMJD1B knockout melanoma cells both in vitro and in vivo. The γH2AX staining, Micrococcal Nuclease sensitivity, and comet assays demonstrated increased DNA damage and genome instability. The JMJD1B expression in human melanoma tumors correlates with a lower mutational burden and fewer oncogenic driver mutations. Our findings highlight JMJD1B's role in maintaining genome integrity by ensuring a proper histone supply to the nucleus, expanding its function beyond gene expression regulation. JMJD1B emerges as a crucial player in preserving genome stability and the development of melanoma, with a potential role as a safeguard against oncogenic mutations.

Non-melanoma skin cancers (NMSC), including basal cell carcinoma (BCC), cutaneous squamous cell carcinoma (cSCC), and Merkel cell carcinoma (MCC), are increasingly common and present significant healthcare challenges. Neutrophil extracellular traps (NETs), chromatin fibers expulsed by neutrophil granulocytes, can promote immunotherapy resistance via an impairment of CD8<sup>+</sup> T cell-mediated cytotoxicity. Here, to identify a potential therapeutic target, we investigate the expulsion of NETs and their relation to CD8<sup>+</sup> T cell infiltration in NMSC. Immunofluorescence staining for neutrophils (CD15) and NETs (H3cit), as well as immunohistochemistry for cytotoxic T cells (CD8<sup>+</sup>) on human cSCCs (<i>n</i> = 24), BCCs (<i>n</i> = 17) and MCCs (<i>n</i> = 12), revealed a correlation between neutrophil infiltration and ulceration diameter in BCC and MCC, but not in cSCC. In BCC and cSCC, neutrophil infiltration also correlated with the cross-sectional area (CSA). NETs were not associated with established risk factors but with the presence of an ulceration, and, in cSCC, with abscess-like structures. CD8<sup>+</sup> T cell infiltration was not reduced in tumors that were NET-positive nor in those with a denser neutrophil infiltration. This study is the first to report and characterize NETs in NMSC. Thus, it gives an incentive for further research in this relevant yet understudied topic.

The landscape of clinical management for metastatic melanoma (MM) and other solid tumors has been modernized by the advent of immune checkpoint inhibitors (ICI), including programmed cell death-1 (PD-1), programmed cell death-ligand 1 (PD-L1), and cytotoxic T lymphocyte antigen 4 (CTLA-4) inhibitors. While these agents demonstrate efficacy in suppressing tumor growth, they also lead to immune-related adverse events (irAEs), resulting in the exacerbation of autoimmune diseases such as rheumatoid arthritis (RA), ulcerative colitis (UC), and Crohn's disease (CD). The immune checkpoint inhibitors offer promising advancements in the treatment of melanoma and other cancers, but they also present significant challenges related to irAEs and autoimmune diseases. Ongoing research is crucial to better understand these challenges and develop strategies for mitigating adverse effects while maximizing therapeutic benefits. In this manuscript, we addressed this challenge using network-based approaches by constructing and analyzing the molecular and signaling networks associated with tumor-immune crosstalk. Our analysis revealed that IL6 is the key regulator responsible for irAEs during ICI therapies. Furthermore, we conducted an integrative network and molecular-level analysis, including virtual screening, of drug libraries, such as the Collection of Open Natural Products (COCONUT) and the Zinc15 FDA-approved library, to identify potential IL6 inhibitors. Subsequently, the compound amprenavir was identified as the best molecule that may disrupt essential interactions between IL6 and IL6R, which are responsible for initiating the signaling cascades underlying irAEs in ICI therapies.

Research on different types of ionizing radiation's effects has been ongoing for years, revealing its efficacy in damaging cancer cells. Solid tumors comprise diverse cell types, each being able to respond differently to radiation. This study evaluated the radiobiological response of established (MDA-MB-231 (Triple negative breast cancer, TNBC), MCF-7 (Luminal A)) and patient-derived malignant cell lines, cancer-associated fibroblasts, and skin fibroblasts following proton IRR. All cell line types were irradiated with the proton dose of 2, 4, and 6 Gy. The radiobiological response was assessed using clonogenic assay, γH2AX, and p53 staining. It was noticeable that breast cancer lines of different molecular subtypes displayed no significant variations in their response to proton IRR. In terms of cancer-associated fibroblasts extracted from the tumor tissue, the line derived from a TNBC subtype tumor demonstrated higher resistance to ionizing radiation compared to lines isolated from luminal A tumors. Fibroblasts extracted from patients' skin responded identically to all doses of proton radiation. This study emphasizes that tumor response is not exclusively determined by the elimination of breast cancer cells, but also takes into account tumor microenvironmental variables and skin reactions.

Acral melanoma (AM) is a subtype of cutaneous melanoma located on the palms, soles, and nails. The pathogenesis of AM involves mechanical stimulation and characteristic tumor-promoting mutations, such as those in the <i>KIT</i> proto-oncogene. Dermoscopy is useful for diagnosing AM, which is characterized by parallel ridge patterns and irregular diffuse pigmentation. Although histopathological confirmation is the gold standard for diagnosing AM, lesions showing minimal histopathological changes should be considered early-stage AM if they clinically resemble it. Recently, immunohistochemical staining of preferentially expressed antigen in melanoma has been recognized as a useful method to distinguish benign from malignant melanocytic tumors. Research reveals that AM is associated with an immunosuppressive microenvironment characterized by increased numbers of M2 macrophages and regulatory T cells, alongside a decreased number of tumor-infiltrating lymphocytes. Mohs micrographic surgery or digit-sparing wide local excision has been explored to improve quality of life and replace wide local excision or proximal amputation. AM has a worse prognosis than other subtypes, even in the early stages, indicating its inherent aggressiveness.

Canine malignant melanoma (CMM) is highly aggressive and mostly located in the oral cavity. CMM is the predominant type of canine oral malignancy and shows striking homologies with human mucosal melanoma. In comparative oncology, canine oral melanomas (COMs), as spontaneous tumor models, have the potential to acquire a unique value as a translational model of rare human melanoma subtypes. This review aims to provide a comprehensive summary of targeted therapies for canine malignant melanoma and to enrich the field of comparative oncology. Following the PRISMA guidelines, a comprehensive literature search was conducted across databases for studies from 1976 to April 2024. Studies were selected based on their relevance to targeted treatments. A total of 30 studies met the inclusion criteria. Based on the treatment approaches, the studies were further categorized into immunotherapies, small molecule signaling inhibitors, indirect kinase inhibitors, and other alternative strategies. Some treatments have been shown to result in stable disease or partial response, accounting for 29% (monoclonal antibody) and 76.5% (micro-RNA therapies) in clinical trials. Moreover, in vitro experiments of small molecule inhibitors, including cell signaling inhibitors and indirect kinase inhibitors, have shown the potential to be an effective treatment option for the development of therapeutic strategies in canine malignant melanoma. The observed response in in vitro experiments of CMM (particularly the oral and certain cutaneous subtypes) to drugs used in the treatment of human melanoma underlines the resemblance to human melanoma, therefore supporting the notion that CMM may be a valuable model for understanding rare human melanoma subtypes and exploring potential therapeutic avenues in preclinical trials. Finally, this literature review serves as a valuable resource for the development of therapeutic strategies for CMM and highlights the potential for translating these findings to human cancer treatment.

Transglutaminase enzymes catalyze Ca<sup>2+</sup>- and thiol-dependent posttranslational modifications of glutamine-residues that include esterification, hydrolysis and transamidation, which results in covalent protein-protein crosslinking. Among the eight transglutaminase family members in mammals, transglutaminase 1 (TG1) plays a crucial role in skin barrier formation via crosslinking and insolubilizing proteins in keratinocytes. Despite this established function in skin, novel functions have begun merging in normal tissue homeostasis as well as in pathologies. This review summarizes our current understanding of the structure, activation, expression and activity patterns of TG1 and discusses its putative novel role in other tissues, such as in vascular integrity, and in diseases, such as cancer and fibrosis.

<b>Background/Objectives</b>: Basal cell carcinomas (BCCs) and squamous cell carcinomas (SCCs) are non-melanoma skin cancers (NMSCs) and the most prevalent cancers in the United States. Image-guided superficial radiotherapy (IGSRT) is a relatively new treatment option that uses high-resolution dermal ultrasound integrated with superficial radiotherapy to improve tumor visualization. IGSRT is a clinically equivalent non-surgical alternative to Mohs micrographic surgery at 2 years of follow-up in early-stage NMSC, but larger cohort studies with longer follow-up periods that allow for analysis of patient outcomes by demographic and disease characteristics are needed. <b>Methods</b>: This large, retrospective cohort study was conducted to determine the effect of risk factors (tumor location, tumor stage, and sex) on 2-, 4-, and 6-year freedom from recurrence rates in 19,988 NMSC lesions treated with IGSRT, including lesions with complete treatment courses. <b>Results</b>: Overall freedom from recurrence rates were 99.68% at 2 years, 99.54% at 4 years, and 99.54% at 6 years; rates did not differ significantly by tumor location (head/neck versus other locations, <i>p</i> = 0.9) or sex (male versus female, <i>p</i> = 0.4). In contrast, there was a significant difference in freedom from recurrence rates when analyzed by tumor stage (<i>p</i> = 0.004). <b>Conclusions</b>: There was no significant effect of tumor location or sex on freedom from recurrence in IGSRT-treated NMSC. Although there was a significant difference according to tumor stage, freedom from recurrence rates exceeded 99% at all stages.

Guided by the idea that the presence of a heterocyclic aromatic core and tyramine moiety, under the umbrella of a single molecular scaffold could bring interesting biological properties, herein we present synthesis, characterization, with two crystal structures reported, and biological evaluation of some tyramine derivates. Cytotoxic and antimigratory potential was addressed by using a colorectal cancer cell line as a model system. Although possessing no cytotoxic effects, two compounds have shown strong antimigratory potential in low doses, with no effect on healthy MRC-5 cells. Evaluation of their antimicrobial activities suggested prominent antimicrobial activity, where Compound 4 outperformed streptomycin against Escherichia coli and Proteus mirabilis. Hormone-dependent types of cancer, such as prostate, ovary, and breast, are highly dependent on human sex hormone-binding globulin (SHBG) blood levels. A molecular docking study has shown that 1 has high affinity to bind and therefore compete with natural steroids for the SHBG steroid-binding site. DNA-binding study have shown that 4 interacts with CT-DNA in a groove-binding mode. In silico ADME/T study revealed that all compounds have suitable physicochemical properties for oral bioavailability and druglikeness, while toxicity tests for 1, 4, and 6 suggested potential for mutagenicity (4, 6), hepatotoxicity (6), and skin sensation (1).

Chemotherapy is the most common cancer treatment, and metallic anticancer compounds have generated increasing amounts of interest since the discovery of cisplatin. More recently, scientists have focused on ruthenium-based compounds as alternatives for platinum compounds, which seem like ideal therapeutic anticancer alternatives to platinum derivatives. The present study aims to assess whether one or more of three Ruthenium-based nanocomposites, namely Ru+Lysine+CTAB (RCTL), Ru+CTAB (RCT), and Ru+Lysine (RL) exhibit pronounced anti-proliferative properties against different cancer cells. Three Ruthenium nanocomposites have been synthesized by standard chemical methods and characterized by Dynamic light scattering (DLS) and Transmission electron microscopy (TEM). The cytotoxic effect of the three composites has been evaluated by MTT in-vitro assay for different human cancer cell lines, namely MCF7, HepG2, A549, and PC3 versus normal human skin cell line (BJ1). The molecular underlying mechanisms of cytotoxicity have been assessed via qRT-PCR for pro-apoptotic makers P53 and Casp-3, and anti-apoptotic marker Bcl-2 as well as flow cytometric analysis of the cell cycle. Among the 3 nanocomposites, RCTL gave the best sensitivity and cytotoxicity especially on HepG2 with IC<sub>50</sub> 0.55 µg/ml but was still toxic on normal cell line with dose <12.5 µg/ml. RCTL and RCT nanocomposites have demonstrated a significant increase in the expression of P53 and Casp-3 markers versus untreated controls, but a significant reduction in the expression of Bcl-2. There was a direct correlation between the cytotoxic effect and the degree of apoptosis in the different cancer cell lines. The present study has also proved cell cycle arrest at G2-M and pre-G1 phases under the effect of IC<sub>50</sub> of RCTL and RCT nanocomposites in different cancer lines with the best effect being achieved in HepG2 cells. Ruthenium nanocomposites seem to open a new avenue in cancer therapy.

Oral mucosal melanomas (OMMs) are aggressive neoplasms commonly found in dogs but rare in humans. Utilizing whole exome sequencing (WES), which focuses on protein-coding regions to reveal mutation profiles, we conducted a comparative analysis of canine OMM and human melanomas. This study involved DNA extraction, exome enrichment, and sequencing from three canine OMM cell lines (CMGD-2, CMGD-5, TLM-1), five canine OMM frozen samples, a human OMM cell line (MEMO), and a human commercial skin melanoma cell line (SK-MEL-28). The sequencing and subsequent analysis of FASTQ files yielded final variant files, leading to the identification of mutations. Our findings revealed a total of 500 mutated genes in canine OMM, including significant ones such as EP300, FAT4, JAK3, LRP1B, NCOR1, and NOTCH1. Notably, 82 shared mutations were identified between human melanomas and canine OMM genomes. These mutations were categorized based on the gene functions. The identification of these mutations provides critical insights that can pave the way for the development of novel therapeutic strategies for both canine and human OMM, offering hope for more effective treatments in the future.

Tissue-resident memory T (T<sub>RM</sub>) cells are integral to tissue immunity, persisting in diverse anatomical sites where they adhere to a common transcriptional framework. How these cells integrate distinct local cues to adopt the common T<sub>RM</sub> cell fate remains poorly understood. Here, we show that whereas skin T<sub>RM</sub> cells strictly require transforming growth factor β (TGF-β) for tissue residency, those in other locations utilize the metabolite retinoic acid (RA) to drive an alternative differentiation pathway, directing a TGF-β-independent tissue residency program in the liver and synergizing with TGF-β to drive T<sub>RM</sub> cells in the small intestine. We found that RA was required for the long-term maintenance of intestinal T<sub>RM</sub> populations, in part by impeding their retrograde migration. Moreover, enhanced RA signaling modulated T<sub>RM</sub> cell phenotype and function, a phenomenon mirrored in mice with increased microbial diversity. Together, our findings reveal RA as a fundamental component of the host-environment interaction that directs immunosurveillance in tissues.

Chemotherapy, although effective in treating cancer, can induce various cellular responses, including senescence and drug resistance. Here, we investigate the transcriptomic alterations induced by doxorubicin (DOX), a commonly used chemotherapeutic agent, in human colon cancer cells. Using single-cell RNA sequencing, we identified distinct cell populations and their transcriptional profiles following subtoxic DOX treatment, revealing cell clusters characterized by differential expression of genes involved in cell cycle regulation and interferon (IFN) signaling. DOX-persisting proliferating cells exhibited upregulation of genes reported to be linked to the unphosphorylated form of ISGF3 (U-ISGF3) transcription factor. Furthermore, we found that HSH2D, a poor prognostic marker, was highly upregulated in doxorubicin-surviving proliferative cells, and its expression was correlated with U-ISGF3-related genes. Analysis of transcription kinetics via mathematical modeling revealed that the number of mRNA molecules produced per transcriptional burst was increased for U-ISGF3-related genes. We also observed altered gene co-expression patterns of U-ISGF3-related genes and others upon DOX treatment, which potentially contributes to chemoresistance of DOX-surviving proliferative cells and may influence cancer cell fate after chemotherapy. Our findings highlight U-ISGF3-related genes and the JAK/STAT pathway as potential therapeutic targets for overcoming chemoresistance in colon cancer.

Chemotherapy, although effective in treating cancer, can induce various cellular responses, including senescence and drug resistance. Here, we investigate the transcriptomic alterations induced by doxorubicin (DOX), a commonly used chemotherapeutic agent, in human colon cancer cells. Using single-cell RNA sequencing, we identified distinct cell populations and their transcriptional profiles following subtoxic DOX treatment, revealing cell clusters characterized by differential expression of genes involved in cell cycle regulation and interferon (IFN) signaling. DOX-persisting proliferating cells exhibited upregulation of genes reported to be linked to the unphosphorylated form of ISGF3 (U-ISGF3) transcription factor. Furthermore, we found that HSH2D, a poor prognostic marker, was highly upregulated in doxorubicin-surviving proliferative cells, and its expression was correlated with U-ISGF3-related genes. Analysis of transcription kinetics via mathematical modeling revealed that the number of mRNA molecules produced per transcriptional burst was increased for U-ISGF3-related genes. We also observed altered gene co-expression patterns of U-ISGF3-related genes and others upon DOX treatment, which potentially contributes to chemoresistance of DOX-surviving proliferative cells and may influence cancer cell fate after chemotherapy. Our findings highlight U-ISGF3-related genes and the JAK/STAT pathway as potential therapeutic targets for overcoming chemoresistance in colon cancer.

Current cancer treatment strategies continue to face significant challenges, primarily due to tumor relapse, drug resistance, and low treatment efficiency. These issues arise because certain tumor cells adapt to the host immune microenvironment and evade the immune system. This study presents a new cancer immunotherapy strategy using serum-based antibodies from mice exposed to mouse cutaneous squamous cell carcinoma (mCSCC). The experiment was conducted in three stages. In the first stage, mCSCC cells were isolated and expanded cultured from DMBA/TPA-induced mCSCC. In the second stage, these expanded tumor cells were injected into healthy mice to stimulate the production of anti-tumor antibodies. In the final stage, therapeutic serum was extracted from these healthy mice and reintroduced into the tumor-bearing mice. An ELISA assay was utilized to analyze the levels of p53, Bcl-xL, NF-κB, and Bax. The results showed that the serum treatment not only reduced tumor volume but also reversed changes in p53, Bcl-xL, NF-κB, and Bax. In conclusion, this study developed a new immunotherapeutic strategy for treating mCSCC. However, further research is needed to fully comprehend the mechanism of this serum treatment.

Non-melanoma skin cancer (NMSC) is primarily categorized into basal cell carcinoma (BCC), the most prevalent form of skin cancer, and cutaneous squamous cell carcinoma (cSCC), the second most common type. Both BCC and cSCC represent a significant health burden, particularly in immunocompromised individuals and the elderly. The immune system plays a pivotal role in the development and progression of NMSC, making it a critical focus for therapeutic interventions. This review highlights key immunological targets in BCC and cSCC, with a focus on immune checkpoint molecules such as PD-1/PD-L1 and CTLA-4, which regulate T cell activity and contribute to immune evasion. This review also highlights anti-tumor immune cell subsets within the tumor microenvironment (TME), such as tumor-infiltrating lymphocytes (TILs) and dendritic cells. Additionally, it examines the immunosuppressive elements of the TME, including regulatory T cells (Tregs), myeloid-derived suppressor cells (MDSCs), tumor-associated macrophages (TAMs), and cancer-associated fibroblasts (CAFs), as well as their roles in NMSC progression and resistance to therapy. Emerging strategies targeting these immune elements, such as monoclonal antibodies, are also discussed for their potential to enhance anti-tumor immune responses and improve clinical outcomes. By elucidating the immunological landscape of BCC and cSCC and drawing comparisons to melanoma, this review highlights the transformative potential of immunotherapy in treating these malignancies.

To highlight the feasibility of employing super-thin ALT free flaps for reconstruction of complex oral cavity and oropharyngeal defects.

Lipomas are the most prevalent benign soft-tissue tumours, however, pedunculated fibrolipoma in the buttock is rare. Here, the case of a Chinese male patient in his early 70s with a 50-year history of a growing pedunculated fibrolipoma on his right buttock is presented. The attending physician and the registered nurse collaborated on a treatment plan, leading to a successful resection with rhomboid flap transfer. The operation went smoothly, and with continued home care and follow-ups, the patient recovered well, without complications. At 4 months post-surgery, the incision had healed perfectly, boosting the patient's psychological state and allowing him to resume his daily activities unhindered.

Tebentafusp, a bispecific immune therapy, is the only drug that demonstrated an overall survival benefit in patients with metastatic uveal melanoma (MUM). Circulating tumor DNA (ctDNA) has emerged as a potential prognostic and predictive marker in the phase 3 IMCgp100-202 trial using multiplex PCR-based next-generation sequencing (NGS). In this study (NCT02866149), ctDNA dynamics were assessed using droplet digital PCR (ddPCR) in 69 MUM patients undergoing tebentafusp treatment. Notably, 61% of patients exhibited detectable ctDNA before treatment initiation, which was associated with shorter overall survival (median 12.9 months versus 40.5 months for patients with undetectable ctDNA; p < 0.001). Patients manifesting a 90% or greater reduction in ctDNA levels at 12 weeks demonstrated markedly prolonged overall survival (median 21.2 months versus 12.9 months; p = 0.02). Our findings highlight the potential of ddPCR-based ctDNA monitoring as an economical, pragmatic and informative approach in MUM management, offering valuable insights into treatment response and prognosis.

Immune checkpoint blockade (ICB) is a promising cancer therapy; however, resistance frequently develops. To explore ICB resistance mechanisms, we develop Immunotherapy Resistance cell-cell Interaction Scanner (IRIS), a machine learning model aimed at identifying cell-type-specific tumor microenvironment ligand-receptor interactions relevant to ICB resistance. Applying IRIS to deconvolved transcriptomics data of the five largest melanoma ICB cohorts, we identify specific downregulated interactions, termed resistance downregulated interactions (RDI), as tumors develop resistance. These RDIs often involve chemokine signaling and offer a stronger predictive signal for ICB response compared to upregulated interactions or the state-of-the-art published transcriptomics biomarkers. Validation across multiple independent melanoma patient cohorts and modalities confirms that RDI activity is associated with CD8 + T cell infiltration and highly manifested in hot/brisk tumors. This study presents a strongly predictive ICB response biomarker, highlighting the key role of downregulating chemotaxis-associated ligand-receptor interactions in inhibiting lymphocyte infiltration in resistant tumors.

Tumor Treating Fields (TTFields) therapy is a locoregional, anticancer treatment consisting of a noninvasive, portable device that delivers alternating electric fields to tumors through arrays placed on the skin. Based on efficacy and safety data from global pivotal (randomized phase III) clinical studies, TTFields therapy (Optune Gio) is US Food and Drug Administration-approved for newly diagnosed (nd) and recurrent glioblastoma (GBM) and Conformité Européenne-marked for grade 4 glioma. Here we review data on the multimodal TTFields mechanism of action that includes disruption of cancer cell mitosis, inhibition of DNA replication and damage response, interference with cell motility, and enhancement of systemic antitumor immunity (adaptive immunity). We describe new data showing that TTFields therapy has efficacy in a broad range of patients, with a tolerable safety profile extending to high-risk subpopulations. New analyses of clinical study data also confirmed that overall and progression-free survival positively correlated with increased usage of the device and dose of TTFields at the tumor site. Additionally, pilot/early phase clinical studies evaluating TTFields therapy in ndGBM concomitant with immunotherapy as well as radiotherapy have shown promise, and new pivotal studies will explore TTFields therapy in these settings. Finally, we review recent and ongoing studies in patients in pediatric care, other central nervous system tumors and brain metastases, as well as other advanced-stage solid tumors (ie, lung, ovarian, pancreatic, gastric, and hepatic cancers), that highlight the broad potential of TTFields therapy as an adjuvant treatment in oncology.

In this study we aimed to understand and summarize the clinical and pathological characteristics of cutaneous mixed tumors. A retrospective analysis was conducted on the clinical and pathological data of 20 patients diagnosed with cutaneous mixed tumors in our outpatient department between January 2014 and April 2024. The study comprised 20 patients with a male-to-female ratio of 3:2. The mean age of onset was 52.10 ± 15.46 years. All patients presented with solitary cutaneous lesions ranging from 2 to 30 mm in diameter. Notably, none of the patients received a preoperative diagnosis of cutaneous mixed tumor. The clinical manifestations of cutaneous mixed tumors are nonspecific, necessitating histopathological examination for a definitive diagnosis.

There is a paucity of information on racial and ethnic disparities relating to barriers to care in healthcare access and utilization in patients with cutaneous malignancies. We conducted a cross-sectional analysis of adults with melanoma, basal cell carcinoma (BCC) and cutaneous squamous cell carcinoma (cSCC) in the National Institutes of Health (NIH) All of Us Research Program collected between May 2018 and July 2022. Participants included adults (aged 18 or older) with cutaneous malignancy who completed the Health Care Access and Utilization survey. We identified 5,817 adults who were diagnosed with BCC (67%), cSCC (28.9%), and melanoma (23.9%). Non-Hispanic Black (NHB) and Hispanic patients were more likely than non-Hispanic White (NHW) patients to delay a primary care visit due to cost (p = 0.005 and p = 0.015, respectively). NHB patients were also more likely to delay care due to lack of transportation (p < 0.001). NHB and Hispanic patients were more likely to place importance on seeing a provider from the same background (NHB p < 0.002; Hispanic p = 0.002) and also were more likely to report never being able to see such a provider (NHB p < 0.001; Hispanic p = 0.002). Medicaid/Medicare patients, non-college graduates, and those with lower incomes also faced increased barriers to care, including delays due to cost and transportation issues. People of color with cutaneous malignancies are more likely to delay care in seeing primary care providers due to cost or transportation issues. This study provides important insights on disproportionate healthcare usage among racial/ethnic groups that may help mitigate healthcare disparities.

The association of AA with malignancies has been a scope of controversy as the current literature is highly inconsistent in this regard. To evaluate the association between AA and hematological malignancies (HMs) and solid malignancies (SMs) using a large-scale, real-life computerized database. A cross-sectional study was conducted to compare the prevalence of HMs and SMs among patients with AA relative to age-, sex-, and ethnicity-matched control subjects. Chi-square and t-tests were used for univariate analysis, and a logistic regression model was used for multivariate analysis. The study included 51,561 patients with AA and 51,410 controls. AA was significantly associated with HMs (adjusted OR, 1.27; 95% CI, 1.07-1.51; P = 0.006). This association was more robust among patients with late-onset AA (≥ 50 years; OR, 1.33; 95% CI, 1.04-1.71; P = 0.025). On the other hand, AA was not found to be significantly associated with SM (adjusted OR, 0.97; 95% CI, 0.88-1.06; P = 0.487), excluding among patients with alopecia totalis and universalis (OR, 2.10; 95% CI, 1.03-4.27; P = 0.036). In a granular analysis including 5 HMs and 18 SMs, non-Hodgkin lymphoma was the only malignancy that proved positively associated with AA (adjusted OR, 1.32; 95% CI, 1.03-1.69; P = 0.028). AA is associated with HMs but not SMs. Further research is warranted to validate our observations in other study cohorts.

Keratinocyte carcinoma is the most common form of cancer in the United States. Often treated by surgical excision, electrodessication and curettage, or Mohs surgery, treatment can frequently leave patients with a scar and can be time consuming and inconvenient for both patients and healthcare providers. Utilizing non-ablative fractional laser therapy followed by tirbanibulin ointment, we treated 30 basal and/or squamous cell carcinomas on 23 patients over the age of 50 with varying skin types. Multiple areas of the face and body, and carcinomas at differing stages, were treated. We maximized the depth of penetration of the fractional laser by using bulk heating methods while simultaneously optimizing cosmetic results. This is an ongoing study as we continue to track the progress of our participants. Thus far, no clinical or histological recurrence of carcinoma has been found in any of the treated sites.

Keratinocyte carcinoma is the most common form of cancer in the United States. Often treated by surgical excision, electrodessication and curettage, or Mohs surgery, treatment can frequently leave patients with a scar and can be time consuming and inconvenient for both patients and healthcare providers. Utilizing non-ablative fractional laser therapy followed by tirbanibulin ointment, we treated 30 basal and/or squamous cell carcinomas on 23 patients over the age of 50 with varying skin types. Multiple areas of the face and body, and carcinomas at differing stages, were treated. We maximized the depth of penetration of the fractional laser by using bulk heating methods while simultaneously optimizing cosmetic results. This is an ongoing study as we continue to track the progress of our participants. Thus far, no clinical or histological recurrence of carcinoma has been found in any of the treated sites.

Keratinocyte carcinoma is the most common form of cancer in the United States. Often treated by surgical excision, electrodessication and curettage, or Mohs surgery, treatment can frequently leave patients with a scar and can be time consuming and inconvenient for both patients and healthcare providers. Utilizing non-ablative fractional laser therapy followed by tirbanibulin ointment, we treated 30 basal and/or squamous cell carcinomas on 23 patients over the age of 50 with varying skin types. Multiple areas of the face and body, and carcinomas at differing stages, were treated. We maximized the depth of penetration of the fractional laser by using bulk heating methods while simultaneously optimizing cosmetic results. This is an ongoing study as we continue to track the progress of our participants. Thus far, no clinical or histological recurrence of carcinoma has been found in any of the treated sites.

Chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) is a prevalent respiratory condition characterized by persistent and progressive airflow obstruction, resulting in chronic respiratory symptoms like dyspnea, cough, and sputum production, accompanied by wheezing, chest tightness, fatigue, and reduced physical activity. Under the influence of various factors, patients with COPD often experience acute exacerbations, which have a significant negative impact on the prognosis, quality of life, and life span of patients. As a branch of cupping therapy, moving cupping along meridians is an essential complementary therapy of the traditional Chinese medicine system. Cupping plays a unique role in treating and preventing many diseases by stimulating the local skin with negative pressure. This article elaborately describes the procedure of moving cupping along meridians therapy in the treatment of AECOPD. The effectiveness and feasibility of moving cupping along meridians therapy in relieving symptoms and enhancing the quality of life is demonstrated by comparing the changes in the 36-item Short-Form (SF-36) health survey questionnaire, the modified Medical Research Council dyspnea scale (mMRC), and the COPD Assessment Test (CAT) score before and after the treatment. As a cost-effective complementary treatment, the protocol for the moving cupping along meridians treatment described in this article is expected to provide a reference for non-pharmacological treatment options for AECOPD.

Chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) is a prevalent respiratory condition characterized by persistent and progressive airflow obstruction, resulting in chronic respiratory symptoms like dyspnea, cough, and sputum production, accompanied by wheezing, chest tightness, fatigue, and reduced physical activity. Under the influence of various factors, patients with COPD often experience acute exacerbations, which have a significant negative impact on the prognosis, quality of life, and life span of patients. As a branch of cupping therapy, moving cupping along meridians is an essential complementary therapy of the traditional Chinese medicine system. Cupping plays a unique role in treating and preventing many diseases by stimulating the local skin with negative pressure. This article elaborately describes the procedure of moving cupping along meridians therapy in the treatment of AECOPD. The effectiveness and feasibility of moving cupping along meridians therapy in relieving symptoms and enhancing the quality of life is demonstrated by comparing the changes in the 36-item Short-Form (SF-36) health survey questionnaire, the modified Medical Research Council dyspnea scale (mMRC), and the COPD Assessment Test (CAT) score before and after the treatment. As a cost-effective complementary treatment, the protocol for the moving cupping along meridians treatment described in this article is expected to provide a reference for non-pharmacological treatment options for AECOPD.

The relationship between bullous pemphigoid (BP) and neoplasms has been debated in the medical literature. Although numerous case reports have described the coexistence of BP with various neoplasms, case-control studies have yielded conflicting results. We present the case of a male patient who developed BP shortly after being diagnosed with mycosis fungoides (MF). He was a 77-year-old man with a history of type 2 diabetes mellitus and hypertension who was diagnosed with MF. Subsequently, he developed blisters after sun exposure, and was diagnosed with BP through histopathology and direct immunofluorescence. The patient was treated with prednisone and methotrexate, with favorable evolution without recurrence of MF or appearance of new blisters. The association between cutaneous T-cell lymphoma and autoimmune blistering disease is rare, although similar cases have been reported, some associated with phototherapy. In this case, the onset of BP after sun exposure suggests a potential connection. The coexistence of BP and MF remains controversial, and this case highlights the importance of considering autoimmune blistering diseases in patients with oncohematological neoplasms.

Pediatric melanomas are rare and some of them may arise on giant congenital melanocytic nevi. The risk of developing melanoma on a medium-sized nevus is not clear but is thought to be very rare. Proliferative cellular nodules which mimic malignant melanoma may pose significant diagnostic challenges. We report the case of a 9-year-old patient who developed a melanoma on a medium-sized congenital melanocytic nevus on the tip of the nose, requiring a complex surgery with excellent aesthetic results.

Spiny keratoderma is a rare dermatological manifestation that occurs sporadically or hereditarily. These are millimetric hyperkeratotic lesions on the palms and/or soles, usually asymptomatic. Histopathologically, they consist of well-defined columns of parakeratosis on a thinned stratum corneum. Sporadic cases can be associated with chronic diseases or neoplasms. We present a case of palmar spiny keratoderma in a man in the seventh decade of life with cirrhosis due to primary sclerosing cholangitis, and hepatocellular carcinoma. He had remission of the skin lesions two months after performing a liver transplant. This behavior favors the interpretation of spiny keratoderma as a paraneoplastic manifestation of hepatocellular carcinoma. We have not found previous reports of spiny keratoderma from Argentina. We review the literature on this entity.

Chronic kidney disease affects 1 in 10 people globally, with a prevalence twenty times that of cancer. A subset of individuals will progress to end-stage renal disease (ESRD) where renal replacement therapy is required to maintain health. Cutaneous disease, including xerosis and pruritus, are endemic amongst patients with ESRD. In the uraemia-associated immune deficiency of ESRD, impaired circulating immune responses contribute to increased infection risk and poorer vaccination response. Clinical manifestations of dysregulated adaptive immunity within the skin have been well-described and have been posited to play a role in cutaneous features of ESRD. However, our understanding of the mechanisms by which adaptive immunity within the skin is affected by uraemia is relatively limited. We provide an overview of how the cutaneous adaptive immune system is impacted both directly and indirectly by uraemia, highlighting that much work has been extrapolated from the circulating immune system and often has not been directly evaluated in the skin compartment. We identify knowledge gaps which may be addressed by future research. Ultimately, greater understanding of these pathways may facilitate novel therapeutic approaches to ameliorate widespread cutaneous symptomatology in ESRD.

Nevoid basal cell carcinoma syndrome is a rare autosomal dominant disorder characterized by a diverse clinical presentation, which includes developmental abnormalities and tumorigenesis that can impact multiple organ systems. Basal cell carcinoma is the most common and characteristic clinical presentation in patients with NBCCS. There are three identified causative genes for this disease, the PTCH1 gene located at 9q22-31, the PTCH2 gene at 1p32-34, and the SUFU gene at 10q24.32. In this paper, we report a case of multiple nevoid basal cell carcinoma. The mutated gene in this patient was determined to be the ELP1 gene located on chromosome 9. This patient's ELP1 gene mutation may contribute to the development of multiple nevoid basal cell carcinomas on the face.

Nevoid basal cell carcinoma syndrome is a rare autosomal dominant disorder characterized by a diverse clinical presentation, which includes developmental abnormalities and tumorigenesis that can impact multiple organ systems. Basal cell carcinoma is the most common and characteristic clinical presentation in patients with NBCCS. There are three identified causative genes for this disease, the PTCH1 gene located at 9q22-31, the PTCH2 gene at 1p32-34, and the SUFU gene at 10q24.32. In this paper, we report a case of multiple nevoid basal cell carcinoma. The mutated gene in this patient was determined to be the ELP1 gene located on chromosome 9. This patient's ELP1 gene mutation may contribute to the development of multiple nevoid basal cell carcinomas on the face.

Despite recent improvements in melanoma survival rates, persistent inequalities pose barriers to care for some patients.

Acral melanoma, which is not ultraviolet (UV)-associated, is the most common type of melanoma in several low- and middle-income countries including Mexico. Latin American samples are significantly underrepresented in global cancer genomics studies, which directly affects patients in these regions as it is known that cancer risk and incidence may be influenced by ancestry and environmental exposures. To address this, here we characterise the genome and transcriptome of 128 acral melanoma tumours from 96 Mexican patients, a population notable because of its genetic admixture. Compared with other studies of melanoma, we found fewer frequent mutations in classical driver genes such as <i>BRAF</i>, <i>NRAS</i> or <i>NF1</i>. While most patients had predominantly Amerindian genetic ancestry, those with higher European ancestry had increased frequency of <i>BRAF</i> mutations and a lower number of structural variants. These <i>BRAF</i>-mutated tumours have a transcriptional profile similar to cutaneous non-volar melanocytes, suggesting that acral melanomas in these patients may arise from a distinct cell of origin compared to other tumours arising in these locations. <i>KIT</i> mutations were found in a subset of these tumours, and transcriptional profiling defined three expression clusters; these characteristics were associated with overall survival. We highlight novel low-frequency drivers, such as <i>SPHKAP</i>, which correlate with a distinct genomic profile and clinical characteristics. Our study enhances knowledge of this understudied disease and underscores the importance of including samples from diverse ancestries in cancer genomics studies.

A 21 year-old Japanese man had a rapidly growing pedunculated soft tumor in the abdomen within the past year, the base of which had persisted for 17 years. A skin biopsy of the soft part resembled neurofibroma. However, the excised specimen showed that the tumor base comprised spindle cells arranged in a storiform fashion and expanded around fat cells with a honeycomb infiltration. All areas of the tumor were positive for CD34 and negative for S-100. Finally, the tumor was diagnosed as a myxoid dermatofibrosarcoma protuberance arising from a conventional area. The pedunculated shape on the conventional part was unique. Myxoid dermatofibrosarcoma protuberances may pose a diagnostic challenge, particularly with a small biopsy. Thus, we should carefully consider dermatofibrosarcoma protuberances or other malignant mesenchymal tumors as a differential diagnosis in cases of low cellularity and abundant stromal tumors resembling neurofibromas.

Cutaneous apocrine carcinoma (CAC) is an extremely rare skin appendage malignant tumor that develops in the apocrine sweat glands, and no evidence-based drug therapy has been established. A 61-year-old female patient was diagnosed with axillary CAC with axillary lymph node metastasis and underwent surgery. Pathological examination revealed seven lymph node metastases. Immunostaining revealed that the tumor cells were estrogen receptor (ER)-positive, progesterone receptor (PgR)-positive, and human epidermal growth factor receptor 2 (HER2)-positive. The patient received chemotherapy, including anti-HER2 drugs, and hormone therapy to prevent recurrence. No recurrence was observed for > 3 years after surgery. The apocrine glands in the skin and mammary glands have similar characteristics and mammary glands are thought to be modified or derived from the apocrine glands present in the subcutaneous adipose tissue. Therefore, ER, PgR, and HER2 levels may be positive in CAC. Drug treatments for breast cancer may also be effective for CAC.

Soft tissue sarcomas account for only 1.5% of malignant tumors in adults and are therefore challenging to treat. We present a case of myxofibrosarcoma of the lower leg in an 88-year-old woman who successfully responded to combined hyperthermia and radiotherapy. We proposed a below-knee amputation because of the spread of the lesion, but the patient opted for hyperthermia with radiotherapy. One and a half years later, the tumor partially regrew, and the regrown mass was resected with an R0 margin. Unfortunately, the patient developed a surgical site infection immediately after the resection, and a skin ulcer formed. It took about 2 years for conservative treatment to result in complete ulcer epithelization. The patient has been ambulant, and has not experienced any symptoms of local recurrence or metastasis in the two and a half years since the surgery. Although adverse events related to combined hyperthermia and radiotherapy, such as delayed wound healing, should be considered, it could be an option for the treatment of localized soft-tissue sarcoma, especially in elderly patients.

Varicella is a childhood disease characterized by its self-limiting and benign nature. However, it can also affect the adult population due to risk factors, leading to infection with numerous complications involving the central nervous system, kidneys, respiratory system, and skin. Varicella pneumonia, one of the most feared complications in adults, occurs in approximately 1 out of 400 patients with the disease. This complication primarily affects male patients with a history of heavy smoking and immunosuppression, either due to an underlying disease such as HIV and cancer, drug use, pregnancy or pulmonary disease. It is recommended that this complication should be treated with intravenous acyclovir at a dose of 10 mg/kg/8 hours. The prognosis depends on the development of respiratory failure; up to 50 % of patients with this complication require invasive mechanical ventilation. Here, we report the clinical case of an immunocompetent patient with a typical presentation of varicella that rapidly progressed to a respiratory infection requiring antiviral treatment and invasive mechanical ventilation.

Reconstruction of large tissue defects following soft tissue sarcoma (STS) resection in the lower extremity presents a significant challenge for plastic surgeons. The optimal method should be selected from a wide array of techniques, depending on the size and location of the defect. Both pedicled and free flaps have demonstrated favorable outcomes. However, due to the nature of STS, there is concern about recurrence and the potential complications for secondary reconstruction. A 78-year-old male with leiomyosarcoma in the proximal third of the leg underwent wide excision and reconstruction using a pedicled medial gastrocnemius muscle flap. Local recurrence occurred at six months postoperatively, necessitating a second extended resection. This was followed by reconstruction using a hemi-split tibialis anterior muscle and hemi-split soleus muscle flaps, combined with a split-thickness skin graft. The postoperative course was uneventful, with complete survival of both the muscle flap and skin graft and no functional limitations in the lower extremity. The hemi-split tibialis anterior and soleus muscle flaps are considered valuable methods for reconstruction, preserving lower extremity function.

This is a case of a 71-year-old Caucasian female presenting with invasive carcinoma of the breast with contralateral axillary lymph node metastasis. This unique presentation presents clinicians with difficulty staging and, therefore, predicting patient prognosis. This patient had a history of right ER/PR positive HER2 negative stage 1 breast cancer s/p lumpectomy with sentinel lymph node biopsy and radiation plus tamoxifen x6 months in 2017. She is now presenting with a recurrence of right breast cancer along with additional metastatic disease to the contralateral (left) axilla. She was treated with a skin-sparing mastectomy along with a contralateral lymph node dissection. A negative sentinel lymph node was seen, representing the dilemma of non-contiguous metastatic spread. Histological pathology of the right breast masses revealed multifocal invasive carcinoma of no special type (ductal), along with two of five left axillary lymph nodes positive for metastatic mammary carcinoma. No right-sided sentinel node was identified. The right breast lesions and the left axillary lymph node metastases are all morphologically similar and showed strong ER expression, the results of which are compatible with spreading to the contralateral axilla.

Melanoma is a highly malignant tumor, that stands as the most lethal form of skin cancer and is characterized by notable phenotypic plasticity and intratumoral heterogeneity. Melanoma plasticity is involved in tumor growth, metastasis and therapy resistance. Long non-coding RNAs (lncRNAs) could influence plasticity due to their regulatory function. However, their role and mode of action are poorly studied. Here, we show a relevance of lncRNA GRASLND in melanoma differentiation and IFNγ signaling. GRASLND knockdown revealed switching of differentiated, melanocytic melanoma cells towards a dedifferentiated, slow-proliferating and highly-invasive cell state. Interestingly, GRASLND is overexpressed in differentiated melanomas and associated with poor prognosis. Accordingly, we found GRASLND expressed in immunological "cold" tumors and it negatively correlates with gene signatures of immune response activation. In line, silencing of GRASLND under IFNγ enhanced the expression of IFNγ-stimulated genes, including HLA-I antigen presentation, demonstrating suppressive activity of GRASLND on IFNγ signaling. Our findings demonstrate that in differentiated melanomas elevated expression of GRASLND interferes with anti-tumor effects of IFNγ, suggesting a role of GRASLND in tumor immune evasion.

Iterative Bleaching Extends multipleXity (IBEX) is a versatile method for highly multiplexed imaging of diverse tissues. Based on open science principles, we created the IBEX Knowledge-Base, a resource for reagents, protocols and more, to empower innovation.

Neoplasia is a common disease in guinea pigs (<i>Cavia porcellus</i>); however, few studies have evaluated the prevalence of neoplasia in all organ systems. We retrospectively analyzed the tumor prevalence in pet guinea pigs and the frequency of metastasis in a multi-institutional study population of 2,474 autopsy cases. Tumors were found in 508 guinea pigs (prevalence: 20.5%), of which 95 cases had >1 tumor, resulting in a total of 627 tumors. The tumor prevalence increased from 1.4% in animals <0.5-y-old to 53.6% for guinea pigs >5-y-old. The most common tumor type was lymphoma or leukemia, affecting 174 guinea pigs (tumor prevalence: 7.0%). Lymphomas or leukemias were disseminated to various organs and/or lymph nodes in 146 (83.9%) cases and localized to 1 organ or 1 lymph node in 28 (16.1%) cases. Primary non-lymphoid tumors were most frequent in the female genital tract (62 of 1,235 cases, mostly uterus), respiratory system (116 of 2,474), skin including mammary gland (81 of 2,474), endocrine system (66 of 2,474, mostly thyroid gland), and alimentary tract (35 of 2,474). Tumors of the alimentary tract were dominated by gastrointestinal stromal tumors. Metastasis was detected in 42 of 453 non-lymphoid tumors (9.3%), with a surprisingly low frequency for pulmonary carcinoma and splenic hemangiosarcoma compared to other species. Our postmortem study demonstrates a high prevalence of disseminated lymphoma or leukemia in pet guinea pigs at the time of death or euthanasia. Additional studies are needed to further characterize these tumors.

ARL13B is a small regulatory GTPase that controls ciliary membrane composition in both motile cilia and non-motile primary cilia. In this study, we investigated the role of ARL13B in the efferent ductules, tubules of the male reproductive tract essential to male fertility in which primary and motile cilia co-exist. We used a genetically engineered mouse model to delete Arl13b in efferent ductule epithelial cells, resulting in compromised primary and motile cilia architecture and functions. This deletion led to disturbances in reabsorptive/secretory processes and triggered an inflammatory response. The observed male reproductive phenotype showed significant variability linked to partial infertility, highlighting the importance of ARL13B in maintaining a proper physiological balance in these small ducts. These results emphasize the dual role of both motile and primary cilia functions in regulating efferent duct homeostasis, offering deeper insights into how cilia related diseases affect the male reproductive system.

Chronic infection with Hepatitis B Virus (HBV) often results in a dysfunctional virus-specific T cell response hampering viral clearance. Paradoxically, intrahepatic inflammatory responses that contribute more to liver histopathology than to viral suppression are commonly observed, which are widely believed to be cell mediated. The involvement of humoral immunity in this process however is not well documented. To investigate the possible roles of HBV Capsid-Antibody Complexes (CACs) in eliciting chronic liver inflammation, we developed a novel microplate-based assay for the quantification of CACs in serum. The CACs assay showed high sensitivity and specificity with its readout closely correlating with the molecular features of CACs. A cross-sectional study on untreated chronic hepatitis B (CHB) patients showed a 77% positive rate for CACs with significant association with alanine transaminase (ALT), intrahepatic inflammation, and complement deposition, suggestive of its functional role in hepatic injury. Multiple staining of complement activation fragment C4d with major leukocyte and myofibroblast markers revealed an intertwined picture in periportal area with a morphology reminiscent of "piecemeal necrosis". In a pooled cohort with ALT levels lower than 40 IU/ml, CACs alone revealed subclinical liver inflammation. We provide definitive evidence for a causative role for CACs in complement-mediated intrahepatic immunopathology, an additional mechanism contributing to liver damage in CHB. Assessment of CACs in serum complements current clinical markers for assessing CHB associated inflammation.

A 54-year-old female with history of underlying asthma and 10 pack-year smoking history was seen in interventional pulmonology clinic for evaluation of multiple scattered pulmonary nodules incidentally found on chest computed tomography (CT). Given the central location of the dominant left upper lobe (LUL) nodule and its proximity to an airway, bronchoscopic biopsy was felt to be the right approach. The IonTM Endoluminal System robotic-assisted navigational bronchoscope (Intuitive Surgical, Sunnyvale, California) was used to sample the LUL nodule under fluoroscopic guidance. Together with clinical and radiological findings, the histological and immunophenotypic findings are supportive for Diffuse Idiopathic Pulmonary Neuroendocrine Cell Hyperplasia (DIPNECH). The DIPNECH is a rare condition first described in a case series published in cancer in 1953. This highly atypical condition highlights the utility of modern navigational bronchoscopy in safely securing a diagnostic bronchoscopic biopsy in locations not previously reachable. This is especially relevant given the challenge and risk to percutaneous CT-guided biopsy. Complications are known to scale with depth from skin site, emphasizing benefits of the bronchoscopic approach in obese patients.

Porokeratosis ptychotropica (PP) is a rare and unusual variant of porokeratosis. There is a dearth of information on the natural history, epidemiology, and optimal treatment options. This study aimed to characterize the worldwide distribution, epidemiology, clinical features, and treatments attempted for all reported cases of porokeratosis ptychotropica. A total of 59 cases of porokeratosis ptychotropica have been reported, with most cases originating from the United States. The median age of patients affected with porokeratosis ptychotropica was 49 years. The most involved body locations are the buttocks and gluteal cleft. The risk of malignant transformation in porokeratosis ptychotropica is approximately 1.7% but there is significant bias in estimating rare occurrences in rare diseases. In conclusion, PP is an important but under-recognized variant of porokeratosis, with a likely low risk of malignant transformation. The best available treatment modality remains uncertain; however, the use of topical lovastatin/cholesterol cream appears promising. Long-term surveillance appears prudent for porokeratosis ptychotropica due to a risk of cancerization.

Two-photon photodynamic therapy (TP-PDT) offers an innovative approach to cancer treatment that utilizes near-infrared light to activate photosensitizers and generate reactive oxygen species (ROS) for targeted cancer cell elimination. TiO<sub>2</sub>-CUR-Sofast (TCS), which uses TiO<sub>2</sub> nanoparticles and Sofast cationic polymer to modify curcumin (CUR), has demonstrated potential as a photosensitizer under visible light irradiation, addressing the limitations of CUR's narrow spectral range and low bioavailability. This study explores the utility of the two-photon technique to activate TCS within the infrared spectrum, aiming to enhance ROS production and penetration depth compared to traditional CUR. TCS exhibits a significantly higher ROS production at 900 nm excitation wavelength, approximately 6-7 times that of CUR, signifying a substantial increase in efficiency. In TP-PDT, TCS showed significant phototoxicity against HeLa and T24 cell lines compared to CUR. Furthermore, TCS's photodynamic efficacy is further confirmed by cell apoptosis and necrosis studies, where approximately 89 % of cells treated with TCS under 900 nm light irradiation were observed in an apoptosis/necrosis state. And the TP-PDT effect in deep tissue was simulated using pig skin. It shows that the two-photon excitation has a significant penetration depth advantage over the single-photon excitation. These results indicate that the two-photon PDT scheme of TCS has greater potential than the single-photon PDT scheme in the treatment of cancer, and provides an experimental foundation for the effective treatment of deep lesions.

Two-photon photodynamic therapy (TP-PDT) offers an innovative approach to cancer treatment that utilizes near-infrared light to activate photosensitizers and generate reactive oxygen species (ROS) for targeted cancer cell elimination. TiO<sub>2</sub>-CUR-Sofast (TCS), which uses TiO<sub>2</sub> nanoparticles and Sofast cationic polymer to modify curcumin (CUR), has demonstrated potential as a photosensitizer under visible light irradiation, addressing the limitations of CUR's narrow spectral range and low bioavailability. This study explores the utility of the two-photon technique to activate TCS within the infrared spectrum, aiming to enhance ROS production and penetration depth compared to traditional CUR. TCS exhibits a significantly higher ROS production at 900 nm excitation wavelength, approximately 6-7 times that of CUR, signifying a substantial increase in efficiency. In TP-PDT, TCS showed significant phototoxicity against HeLa and T24 cell lines compared to CUR. Furthermore, TCS's photodynamic efficacy is further confirmed by cell apoptosis and necrosis studies, where approximately 89 % of cells treated with TCS under 900 nm light irradiation were observed in an apoptosis/necrosis state. And the TP-PDT effect in deep tissue was simulated using pig skin. It shows that the two-photon excitation has a significant penetration depth advantage over the single-photon excitation. These results indicate that the two-photon PDT scheme of TCS has greater potential than the single-photon PDT scheme in the treatment of cancer, and provides an experimental foundation for the effective treatment of deep lesions.

<i>Background:</i> The main challenges of conventional chemotherapy lie in its lack of selectivity and specificity, leading to significant side effects. Using a small-molecule drug conjugate (SMDC) ensures specific delivery of a cytotoxic drug to the tumor site by coupling it to a targeting vector. This promising strategy can be applied to neuroendocrine tumors (NETs) by choosing a targeting vector that binds specifically to somatostatin receptor subtype 2 (SSTR2). Additionally, incorporation of a bifunctional chelate into the molecule enables complexation of both diagnostic and therapeutic radionuclides. Thus, it facilitates monitoring of the distribution of the SMDC in the body and allows for the implementation of combination therapy. In our study, we designed eSOMA-DM1, a SMDC combining the SSTR2-targeted octreotate peptide and the cytotoxic agent DM1 via a chelate-bridged linker (N<sub>3</sub>-Py-DOTAGA). This approach warrants conjugation of the targeting vector and the drug at opposite sites to avoid undesired steric hindrance effects. <i>Methods:</i> Synthesis of the DM1 moiety (<b>4</b>) involved a three-step synthetic route, followed by the conjugation to the cyclic peptide, N<sub>3</sub>-Py-DOTAGA-d-Phe-cyclo[Cys-Tyr-d-Trp-Lys-Thr-Cys]-Thr-OH, through a copper-free click reaction, resulting in eSOMA-DM1. Subsequent labeling with [<sup>111</sup>In]InCl<sub>3</sub> gave a high radiochemical yield and purity. In vitro assessments of eSOMA-DM1 binding, uptake, and internalization were conducted in SSTR2-transfected U2OS cells. Ex vivo biodistribution and fluorescence imaging were performed in H69-tumor bearing mice. <i>Results:</i> eSOMA-DM1 exhibited an IC<sub>50</sub> value for SSTR2 similar to the gold standard DOTA-TATE. The uptake of [<sup>111</sup>In]In-eSOMA-DM1 in U2OS.SSTR2 cells was 1.2-fold lower than that of [<sup>111</sup>In]In-DOTA-TATE. Tumor uptake in H69-xenografted mice was higher for [<sup>111</sup>In]In-eSOMA-DM1 at all-time points compared to [<sup>111</sup>In]In-DOTA-TATE. Prolonged blood circulation led to increased accumulation of [<sup>111</sup>In]In-eSOMA-DM1 in highly vascularized tissues, such as the lungs, skin, and heart. Excretion through the kidneys, liver, and spleen was also observed. <i>Conclusion:</i> eSOMA-DM1 is a SMDC developed for NET showing promising characteristics in vitro. However, the in vivo results obtained with [<sup>111</sup>In]In-eSOMA-DM1 suggest the need for adjustments to optimize its distribution.

Inflammation has a pivotal role in the initiation and progression of various cancers, contributing to crucial processes such as metastasis, angiogenesis, cell proliferation and invasion. Moreover, the release of cytokines mediated by inflammation within the tumour microenvironment (TME) has a crucial role in orchestrating these events. The activation of inflammatory caspases, facilitated by the recruitment of caspase-1, is initiated by the activation of pattern recognition receptors on the immune cell membrane. This activation results in the production of proinflammatory cytokines, including IL-1β and IL-18, and participates in diverse biological processes with significant implications. The NOD-Like Receptor Protein 3 (NLRP3) inflammasome holds a central role in innate immunity and regulates inflammation through releasing IL-1β and IL-18. Moreover, it interacts with various cellular compartments. Recently, the mechanisms underlying NLRP3 inflammasome activation have garnered considerable attention. Disruption in NLRP3 inflammasome activation has been associated with a spectrum of inflammatory diseases, encompassing diabetes, enteritis, neurodegenerative diseases, obesity and tumours. The NLRP3 impact on tumorigenesis varies across different cancer types, with contrasting roles observed. For example, colorectal cancer associated with colitis can be suppressed by NLRP3, whereas gastric and skin cancers may be promoted by its activity. This review provides comprehensive insights into the structure, biological characteristics and mechanisms of the NLRP3 inflammasome, with a specific focus on the relationship between NLRP3 and tumour-related immune responses, and TME. Furthermore, the review explores potential strategies for targeting cancers via NLRP3 inflammasome modulation. This encompasses innovative approaches, including NLRP3-based nanoparticles, gene-targeted therapy and immune checkpoint inhibitors.

Immune checkpoint inhibitors (ICIs) have transformed cancer treatment, providing significant benefit to patients across various tumour types, including melanoma. However, around 40% of melanoma patients do not benefit from ICI treatment, and accurately predicting ICI response remains challenging. We now describe a novel and simple approach that integrates immune-associated transcriptome signatures and tumour volume burden to better predict ICI response in melanoma patients. RNA sequencing was performed on pre-treatment (PRE) tumour specimens derived from 32 patients with advanced melanoma treated with combination PD1 and CTLA4 inhibitors. Of these 32 patients, 11 also had early during treatment (EDT, 5-15 days after treatment start) tumour samples. Tumour volume was assessed at PRE for all 32 patients, and at first computed tomography (CT) imaging for the 11 patients with EDT samples. Analysis of the Hallmark IFNγ gene set revealed no association with ICI response at PRE (AUC ROC curve = 0.6404, p = 0.24, 63% sensitivity, 71% specificity). When IFNg activity was evaluated with tumour volume (ratio of gene set expression to tumour volume) using logistic regression to predict ICI response, we observed high discriminative power in separating ICI responders from non-responders (AUC = 0.7760, p = 0.02, 88% sensitivity, 67% specificity); this approach was reproduced with other immune-associated transcriptomic gene sets. These findings were further replicated in an independent cohort of 23 melanoma patients treated with PD1 inhibitor. Hence, integrating tumour volume with immune-associated transcriptomic signatures improves the prediction of ICI response, and suggest that higher levels of immune activation relative to tumour burden are required for durable ICI response.

The aim of this study was to investigate the impact of using microneedle patches in addition to topical therapy for the treatment of psoriasis. Using continuous liquid interface production (CLIP) 3D printing we manufactured round microneedle array patches (MAPs) with a diameter of 14 mm. Needle geometries were varied from square pyramidal, conical, and obelisk, with varied needle lengths of 400 µm, 600 µm, 800 µm, or 1000 µm. MAPs were characterized for force to fracture, skin penetration, skin damage, as well as their ability to deliver a novel oleogel-based corticosteroid (betamethasone dipropionate (BDP) formulation into ex-vivo porcine skin. We found that the obelisk shaped MAPs are more durable compared to the conical and square pyramidal-shaped MAPs. When the obelisk shaped MAPs were used in combination with the oleogel-based BDP formulation, the amount of BDP penetrating the skin was significantly increased with greater needle lengths.

The aim of this study was to investigate the impact of using microneedle patches in addition to topical therapy for the treatment of psoriasis. Using continuous liquid interface production (CLIP) 3D printing we manufactured round microneedle array patches (MAPs) with a diameter of 14 mm. Needle geometries were varied from square pyramidal, conical, and obelisk, with varied needle lengths of 400 µm, 600 µm, 800 µm, or 1000 µm. MAPs were characterized for force to fracture, skin penetration, skin damage, as well as their ability to deliver a novel oleogel-based corticosteroid (betamethasone dipropionate (BDP) formulation into ex-vivo porcine skin. We found that the obelisk shaped MAPs are more durable compared to the conical and square pyramidal-shaped MAPs. When the obelisk shaped MAPs were used in combination with the oleogel-based BDP formulation, the amount of BDP penetrating the skin was significantly increased with greater needle lengths.

Imaging Mass Cytometry (IMC) is a technology that enables comprehensive analysis of cellular phenotypes at the tissue level. We performed a multi-parameter characterization of structural and immune cell populations in psoriatic skin and synovial tissue samples aimed at characterizing immune cell differences in patients with psoriasis, psoriatic arthritis (PsA). A panel of 33 antibodies was used to stain selected immune and structural cell populations. IMC data were segmented into single cells based on combinations of antibody stains. Single cells were then clustered into cell categories based on pre-specified markers. The spatial relationships of different cell populations were assessed using neighborhood analysis. Among all cell types in the skin and synovium, lymphoid cells accounted for the most prevalent cell type. T cells and macrophages were the most prevalent immune cell type in the synovium and B cells and NK cells were also identified. Neighborhood analysis showed high correlation between synovial T cells, B cells, macrophages, dendritic cells and neutrophils suggesting spatial organization. Innate and adaptive immune cells can be reliably identified using IMC in skin and synovium. Inter-patient heterogeneity exists in tissue cell populations. IMC provides opportunities for exploring in depth underlying immunological mechanisms driving psoriasis and PsA.

Citrus fruits are extensively cultivated and eaten both raw and in refined forms. Citrus fruit peels are highly concentrated in polyphenolic substances. This makes them useful resources. Polymethoxyflavones (PMFs), found in citrus peels, belong to a specific subclass of flavonoids where most or all hydroxyl groups are methylated. PMFs have been documented to possess chemopreventive actions, anticancer, anti-inflammatory, and anti-atherosclerosis properties, as well as neuroprotective effects. Sudachitin, a PMF, is primarily found in Citrus sudachi. Japan's Tokushima prefecture is home to this famous fruit. In recent years, there has been a growing interest among researchers in exploring the potential health benefits of sudachitin, spurred by its presence in traditional diets and its association with various positive health outcomes. Studies conducted over the past decade have revealed promising effects of sudachitin in multiple health conditions, including cancer, skin disorders, inflammatory conditions, diabetes, obesity, and neurodegenerative disorders. Although these promising results exist, there is still a need for thorough preclinical and clinical research to confirm sudachitin's effectiveness in treating chronic conditions. This review seeks to summarize animal and cell studies exploring sudachitin's pharmacological properties and the potential molecular pathways underlying its therapeutic effects. Through this, we aim to clarify the clinical potential of sudachitin across various disorders, paving the way for future research and the development of sudachitin-based therapies.

Drug repurposing is an attractive strategy for therapy development, particularly in rare diseases where traditional drug development approaches may be challenging owing to high cost and small numbers of patients. In this study, we used a drug identification and repurposing pipeline to identify candidate targetable drivers of disease and corresponding therapies through application of causal reasoning using a combination of open-access resources and transcriptomics data. We optimized our approach on psoriasis as a disease model, demonstrating the ability to identify known and, to date, unrecognized molecular drivers of psoriasis and link them to current and emerging therapies. Application of our approach to a cohort of tissue samples of necrobiosis lipoidica (an unrelated; rare; and, to date, molecularly poorly characterized cutaneous inflammatory disorder) identified a unique set of upstream regulators, particularly highlighting the role of IFNG and the Jak-signal transducer and activator of transcription pathway as a likely driver of disease pathogenesis and linked it to Jak inhibitors as potential therapy. Analysis of an independent cohort of necrobiosis lipoidica samples validated these findings, with the overall agreement of drug-matched upstream regulators above 96%. These data highlight the utility of our approach in rare diseases and offer an opportunity for drug discovery in other rare diseases in dermatology and beyond.

Nasal prostheses have long served as critical solutions for patients who have lost part or all of their nose due to cancer, accidents, or congenital deformities. Discussed here is a case report of a patient with basal cell carcinoma who underwent partial rhinectomy and was rehabilitated with a nasal prosthesis fabricated with polymethyl methacrylate and retained with eyewear. The integration of nasal prostheses with eyewear frames not only enhances stability and comfort but also streamlines the daily routine of prosthetic wearers. Patients experience greater freedom of movement, reduced skin irritation, and improved aesthetic results. Custom coloring and texturing techniques ensure the prosthesis blends seamlessly with the patient's skin tone and texture, enhancing self-confidence and psychosocial well-being.

Melanoma, recognized as one of the most immunogenic malignancies in humans, holds paramount significance in the realm of immunotherapy. However, the emergence of drug resistance and the occurrence of adverse drug reactions underscore the pressing need to explore increasingly personalized immunotherapeutic modalities. Extracellular Vesicles (EVs), pivotal derivatives of immune cells, assume pivotal roles by encapsulating proteins, lipids, and nucleic acids within bilayer lipid structures, thereby facilitating targeted delivery to other immune cells. This orchestrated process orchestrates critical functions including antigen presentation, immune modulation, and the induction of apoptosis in tumor cells. A burgeoning body of evidence underscores the vast therapeutic potential of EVs in melanoma treatment. This comprehensive review aims to delineate the roles of EVs derived from immune cells such as dendritic cells, natural killer cells, macrophages, and T cells in the context of melanoma patients, thereby furnishing invaluable insights for the future direction of melanoma immunotherapy.

Intratumoral microbiota (IM) has emerged as a significant component of the previously thought sterile tumor microenvironment (TME), exerting diverse functions in tumorigenesis and immune modulation. This review outlines the historical background, classification, and diversity of IM, elucidating its pivotal roles in oncogenicity, cancer development, and progression, alongside its influence on anti-tumor immunity. The signaling pathways through which IM impacts tumorigenesis and immunity, including reactive oxygen species (ROS), β-catenin, stimulator of interferon genes (STING), and other pathways [NF-κB, Toll-like receptor (TLR), complement, RhoA/ROCK, PKR-like ER kinase (PERK)], are discussed comprehensively. Furthermore, we briefly introduce the clinical implications of IM, emphasizing its potential as a target for novel cancer therapies, diagnostic biomarkers, and prognostic indicators. Notably, microbe-based therapeutic strategies such as fecal microbiome transplantation (FMT), probiotics regulation, bacteriotherapy, bacteriophage therapy, and oncolytic virotherapy are highlighted. These strategies hold promise for enhancing the efficacy of current cancer treatments and warrant further exploration in clinical settings.

Cold atmospheric plasma (CAP) has been extensively utilized in medical treatment, particularly in cancer therapy. However, the underlying mechanism of CAP in skin cancer treatment remains elusive. In this study, we established a skin cancer model using CAP treatment<i>in vitro</i>. Also, we established the Xenograft experiment model<i>in vivo</i>. The results demonstrated that treatment with CAP induced ferroptosis, resulting in a significant reduction in the viability, migration, and invasive capacities of A431 squamous cell carcinoma, a type of skin cancer. Mechanistically, the significant production of reactive oxygen species (ROS) by CAP induces DNA damage, which then activates Ataxia-telangiectasia mutated (ATM) and p53 through acetylation, while simultaneously suppressing the expression of Solute Carrier Family 7 Member 11 (SLC7A11). Consequently, this cascade led to the down-regulation of intracellular Glutathione peroxidase 4 (GPX4), ultimately resulting in ferroptosis. CAP exhibits a favorable impact on skin cancer treatment, suggesting its potential medical application in skin cancer therapy.

Electron radiotherapy has long been preferred to photons for the treatment of superficial lesions because of its physical characteristics (high dose at the surface, rapid decrease in depth). Other characteristics (penumbra, heterogeneity on an oblique or irregular surface) make them difficult to use. In most indications (skin cancers, head and neck, medulloblastoma), with technical progress, in some cases they have been replaced by intensity-modulated conformal radiotherapy, brachytherapy and contact therapy. Other indications (drainage of mesotheliomas or irradiation of benign lesions) have disappeared. The low frequency of use leads to problems of safety and cost-effectiveness. However, modern photon radiotherapy techniques are still less effective than electrons in specific indications such as total skin irradiation (mycosis fungoides) or certain thin chest wall irradiations after total mastectomy, reirradiation or paediatric treatments without protons. Flash therapy, initiated by electrons, has been developed over the last 10 years, providing high-dose irradiation in an extremely short time. Initial results show good efficacy, with fewer side effects than with conventional radiotherapy. These results are leading to clinical technological developments on a larger scale. Although it has been replaced in most indications by more modern techniques, electron radiotherapy remains essential for targeted indications in specialised centres. The emergence of flash therapy will lead to new indications, on machines equipped with this new technology, which have yet to be defined and are currently the responsibility of specialised teams.

Congenital melanocytic nevus syndrome describes congenital melanocytic nevi (CMN) associated with extracutaneous abnormalities, most often involving the nervous system. CMN syndrome is usually caused by postzygotic mutations in the neuroblastoma RAS viral oncogene homolog (NRAS) gene. CMN, collections of melanocytes within the skin, are typically multiple in number and serve as a visible, cutaneous marker of this syndrome. CMN can be classified by predicted maximum diameter in adulthood as well as other clinical features such as anatomic location, color heterogeneity, hypertrichosis, number of satellite nevi, nodules, and surface rugosity. Common neurological abnormalities in CMN syndrome include melanin with the central nervous system (CNS), seizures, and neurodevelopmental delays. Early screening magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) of the CNS during the initial months of life is crucial for predicting the risk of neurodevelopmental abnormalities, seizures, and the need for neurosurgical intervention. Children with a normal screening CNS MRI or intraparenchymal melanosis alone tend to have favorable outcomes. Prognosis otherwise varies widely given the breadth of neurological abnormalities that can occur in CMN syndrome, however if primary melanoma develops in the skin or CNS then outcomes are typically poor.

Uveal Melanoma (UM) is the most common primary intraocular malignancy in adults. Although rare, it is a deadly tumor, with a long-term prognosis of death occurring in more than 50% of the cases. It is characterized by frequent (∼80%) driver mutations in GNAQ and GNA11 genes, both of which are activated by cysteinyl leukotriene receptors (CYSLTRs). CYSLTR1 is upregulated and participated in the progression of several cancers. In the present study, we sought to determine the expression levels of CYSLTR1 in 31 human UM specimens and cell lines (3 primary and 1 metastatic), and its role in the proliferation and viability of these cells by analyzing cell metabolic activity, cell confluence and apoptosis levels. We show that all analyzed UM specimens and cells expressed CYSLTR1 at high levels. Notably, the pharmacological blockage of this receptor, using the inverse agonist MK571, reduced the growth and metabolic activity, and increased the apoptotic cell death of all analyzed UM cell lines. We provide evidence that CYSLTR1 is expressed in human UM and plays a significant role in UM progression behavior. Our data highlight the potential beneficial effects of targeting CYSLTR1 in the control of UM progression.

Uveal Melanoma (UM) is the most common primary intraocular malignancy in adults. Although rare, it is a deadly tumor, with a long-term prognosis of death occurring in more than 50% of the cases. It is characterized by frequent (∼80%) driver mutations in GNAQ and GNA11 genes, both of which are activated by cysteinyl leukotriene receptors (CYSLTRs). CYSLTR1 is upregulated and participated in the progression of several cancers. In the present study, we sought to determine the expression levels of CYSLTR1 in 31 human UM specimens and cell lines (3 primary and 1 metastatic), and its role in the proliferation and viability of these cells by analyzing cell metabolic activity, cell confluence and apoptosis levels. We show that all analyzed UM specimens and cells expressed CYSLTR1 at high levels. Notably, the pharmacological blockage of this receptor, using the inverse agonist MK571, reduced the growth and metabolic activity, and increased the apoptotic cell death of all analyzed UM cell lines. We provide evidence that CYSLTR1 is expressed in human UM and plays a significant role in UM progression behavior. Our data highlight the potential beneficial effects of targeting CYSLTR1 in the control of UM progression.

Melanocytes are specialized melanin-producing neural crest-derived cells. Melanocyte proliferation and melanin production (i.e., melanogenesis) are crucial for determining skin color. Disruption of these processes can cause pigmentary skin disorders, including hypo-pigmentary disorders such as vitiligo and hyper-pigmentary disorders such as melasma. Understanding these processes is important for discovering new targets to tackle these skin disorders. Therefore, this study aimed to investigate the effects of oxytocin (OXT) on melanocyte functions. Normal Human Cultured Melanocytes (NHCM) were treated with different OXT doses to investigate OXT effects and mechanisms on NHCM proliferation, migration, and on melanogenesis. OXT significantly increased NHCM proliferation and migration in a dose-dependent manner after 72 h of treatment. In addition, OXT dose-dependently upregulated melanogenesis-related microphtalmia-associated transcription factor, tyrosinase, tyrosinase-related protein (TYRP)-1, and TYRP-2 expression accompanied by an increased trend in melanosome number and maturation stage. Furthermore, OXT at concentrations (62.5-125 nM) increased melanin production. These findings suggest the involvement of OXT receptor (OXTR). In addition, this study demonstrates that OXT stimulates melanocyte proliferation, migration, with a tendency toward melanosome maturation, while it modulates melanin production in a dose-dependent manner. Thus, OXT system including its receptor OXTR may be a potential therapeutic target for skin pigmentary disorders.

Melanoma is one of the cancers with the highest mortality rate for its ability to metastasize. Several targets have undergone investigation for the development of drugs against this pathology. One of the main targets is the kinase BRAF (RAF, rapidly accelerated fibrosarcoma). The most common mutation in melanoma is BRAFV600E and has been reported in 50-90% of patients with melanoma. Due to the relevance of the BRAFV600E mutation, inhibitors to this kinase have been developed, vemurafenib-OMe and dabrafenib. Ursolic acid (UA) is a pentacyclic triterpene with a privileged structure, the pentacycle scaffold, which allows to have a broad variety of biological activity; the most studied is its anticancer capacity. In this work, we reported the interaction profile of vemurafenib-OMe, dabrafenib, and UA, to define whether UA has binding capacity to BRAFWT, BRAFV600E, and BRAFV600K. Homology modeling of BRAFWT, V600E, and V600K; molecular docking; and molecular dynamics simulations were carried out and interactions and residues relevant to the binding of the inhibitors were obtained. We found that UA, like the inhibitors, presents hydrogen bond interactions, and hydrophobic interactions of van der Waals, and π-stacking with I463, Q530, C532, and F583. The ΔG of ursolic acid in complex with BRAFV600K (- 63.31 kcal/mol) is comparable to the ΔG of the selective inhibitor dabrafenib (- 63.32 kcal/mol) in complex to BRAFV600K and presents a ΔG like vemurafenib-OMe with BRAFWT and V600E. With this information, ursolic acid could be considered as a lead compound for design cycles and to optimize the binding profile and the selectivity towards mutations for the development of new selective inhibitors for BRAFV600E and V600K to new potential melanoma treatments.

It may be necessary for patients to undergo (dermato-)surgical procedures during pregnancy or lactation. Often, there are no drug approvals or guidelines in this context. The following article describes the most common dermatologic surgical conditions during pregnancy and lactation, as well as the special therapeutic considerations and risks to be aware of during treatment. Dermatosurgical procedures are subject to strict indications. Most of these procedures can be performed during pregnancy, but the risks to the mother and fetus must be carefully weighed against the disadvantages of nonsurgical therapy. Although surgery can be performed safely in any trimester, the second trimester and immediate postpartum period are optimal. Surgery should not be delayed for melanoma or high-risk skin cancer. Perioperative positioning and choice of analgesics, antiseptics, anesthetics and antibiotics must be considered carefully to avoid risks to the patient, fetus and infant.

Neutron-activated 31Si is an almost pure beta emitter and is one of the short-lived radionuclides, including beta-gamma emitter 56Mn, which were created in a form of residual radioactivity in the early period after the atomic bombing of Hiroshima and Nagasaki. The features of the biological effects of internal irradiation by these radionuclides are a subject of scientific discussions and research. The publication presents data on internal radiation doses in experimental Wistar rats that were exposed to sprayed neutron-activated microparticles of 31SiO2. Doses of internal radiation could be conditionally divided into three groups according to their values. It has been found that elevated values of internal radiation doses in rats' organs/tissues as a result of exposure to sprayed 31SiO2 microparticles with initial activity of 3.2 × 107 Bq varied from 10 to 120 mGy (eyes, lungs, skin, stomach, jejunum, large intestine). The moderate dose values were in the range from 1.9 to 3.7 mGy (trachea, esophagus, ileum). The smallest doses were received by the kidney, testis, blood, cerebellum, heart, liver, cerebrum, bladder, spleen and thymus (from 0.11 to 0.94 mGy). The obtained data are important for interpreting the results of ongoing and planned biological experiments with 31SiO2 microparticles-in comparison with the previously published data on features of biological effects caused by beta-gamma emitting 56MnO2 neutron-activated microparticles.

Neutron-activated 31Si is an almost pure beta emitter and is one of the short-lived radionuclides, including beta-gamma emitter 56Mn, which were created in a form of residual radioactivity in the early period after the atomic bombing of Hiroshima and Nagasaki. The features of the biological effects of internal irradiation by these radionuclides are a subject of scientific discussions and research. The publication presents data on internal radiation doses in experimental Wistar rats that were exposed to sprayed neutron-activated microparticles of 31SiO2. Doses of internal radiation could be conditionally divided into three groups according to their values. It has been found that elevated values of internal radiation doses in rats' organs/tissues as a result of exposure to sprayed 31SiO2 microparticles with initial activity of 3.2 × 107 Bq varied from 10 to 120 mGy (eyes, lungs, skin, stomach, jejunum, large intestine). The moderate dose values were in the range from 1.9 to 3.7 mGy (trachea, esophagus, ileum). The smallest doses were received by the kidney, testis, blood, cerebellum, heart, liver, cerebrum, bladder, spleen and thymus (from 0.11 to 0.94 mGy). The obtained data are important for interpreting the results of ongoing and planned biological experiments with 31SiO2 microparticles-in comparison with the previously published data on features of biological effects caused by beta-gamma emitting 56MnO2 neutron-activated microparticles.

Radiation-induced skin ulcer following cancer and/or tumour is well-documented in the literature. However, radiation-induced skin ulcer following the excision of keloid is yet to be reported. Here, we report the case of a 33-year-old female patient with a suprapubic skin ulcer of five months' duration following keloid treatment with electron beam therapy at recommended dosage. Various examinations, including a skin biopsy, metagenomic sequencing, magnetic resonance imaging and immunochemistry, indicated that the skin ulcer was induced by radiotherapy. While postoperative radiotherapy has been recommended immediately following keloid excision to reduce the risk of recurrence, the present case highlights the risk of skin refractory ulcer following keloid radiotherapy.

Xanthogranulomatous pyelonephritis (XGP) is an uncommon chronic condition characterized by destructive granulomatous disease of the kidney with uncertain etiology. Significant risk factors for XGP are represented by the coexistence of history of nephrolithiasis, diabetes mellitus, recurrent urinary tract infections and other immunocompromised conditions. It is also associated with higher risk of malignancy, reported in up to 11% of patients. We report a case of a 76-year-old female who presented to the emergency department with an insidious onset of abdominal and right lower back pain. She had a history of renal stones and diabetes mellitus. On physical examination, a painful fistulous orifice in skin on the right lumbar region was found. CT images showed a nonfunctioning right kidney replaced by multiple necrotic cavities with inflammatory involvement of the right hepatic lobe and a nephron-cutaneous fistula. These CT findings were strongly suggestive of XGP (III state). CT images obtained before and after the administration of intravenous contrast material showed also a hyper-vascularized renal mass with irregularly thickened walls confirmed by a targeted CEUS examination and suspicious for malignancy. Pathologic examination confirmed the chronic pyelonephritis and revealed evidence of a concomitant sarcomatoid lesion. This case underlines the central role of a multimodality imaging approach in the emergency department and how this affects the correct management and treatment of patients. In fact, MDCT is considered the current gold standard for the diagnosis and the staging of XPG but the contrast-enhanced ultrasound (CEUS) in selected patients can increase the diagnostic accuracy in the uncertain small renal masses detected on CT scans.

Melanoma is the deadliest form of skin cancer with a 5-year survival rate of less than 20%. While significant strides have been made in the field of kinase-targeted and immune-based therapies for melanoma, the development of resistance to these therapeutic agents has hindered the success of treatment. Drug-resistant melanoma is particularly reliant on enhanced cap-dependent translation to drive the production of oncoproteins that promote growth and survival. The m<sup>7</sup>GpppX cap-binding protein eukaryotic translation initiation factor 4E (eIF4E) is the rate-limiting factor of cap-dependent translation initiation, and its overexpression in melanoma tumors has been shown to drive resistance to BRAF<sup>V600E</sup> kinase-targeted inhibitors. These findings point to eIF4E-targeted therapies as a promising strategy to overcome drug resistance in melanoma. Herein, we build upon our previous work of developing cell-permeable cap analogue inhibitors to design second-generation cap analogues that inhibit eIF4E-mediated cap-dependent translation in drug-resistant melanoma cells.

Colorectal cancer (CRC) brain metastasis (BM) is a rare but aggressive manifestation of the disease, with poor prognosis and limited treatment options. Although brain metastases are more commonly associated with primary tumors located in the lung, skin, and breast, their occurrence in colorectal cancer is uncommon. Genetic mutations are highly important in tumor progression, and mutations in KRAS and BRAF genes are key drivers in colorectal cancer. However, the concurrent presence of both mutations is exceedingly rare. This case report presents a unique instance of colorectal cancer brain metastasis harboring both KRAS and BRAF mutations, highlighting its clinical significance and therapeutic challenges. We present the case of a 62-year-old male patient diagnosed with brain metastasis (in the cerebellum and right parietal lobe) who presented to the hospital with neurological symptoms. He underwent a CT imaging investigation that revealed multiple tumors. Subsequent biopsies confirmed the diagnosis of brain metastasis, with histological characteristics consistent with colonic adenocarcinoma. Tests also revealed aberrant expression of both KRAS and BRAF mutations. This case highlights the importance of considering brain metastases in colorectal cancer patients due to their detrimental effects on prognosis and survival rates. Additionally, the simultaneous presence of BRAF and KRAS mutations, in this case, adds an extra layer of complexity and severity.

Inflammatory breast carcinoma is an uncommon presentation of carcinoma breast characterised by tumour cell emboli invading the dermal lymphatics and manifesting as skin oedema and redness, closely resembling acute mastitis. We report the case of a 37-year-old pregnant female in the second trimester (at 16 weeks) with a left breast inflammatory carcinoma deceptively presenting as a breast abscess leading to a late diagnosis, delayed definitive management, and having profound psychological, therapeutic, and prognostic implications. Given its tendency to be clinically misleading and often disregarded until late stages, much emphasis has to be placed on a low threshold of suspicion when suggestive clinical signs are encountered.

We report the case of a 60-year-old male with a fever for two months and a skin rash for approximately one month prior to visiting his local doctor and subsequent admission to the hospital. Clinical findings included fever, weight loss, and night sweats. Computed tomography (CT) revealed an irregularly shaped mass bordering the upper lobe of the left lung and mediastinum, as well as hepatosplenomegaly. Suspecting lung cancer or malignant lymphoma, the patient was referred to our hospital for further evaluation. Positron emission tomography-computed tomography (PET/CT) revealed hepatosplenomegaly with accumulation of contrast agents in the liver, spleen, and bone marrow, as well as in a mass in the left upper lobe. A liver biopsy revealed atypical cells in the sinusoids, and immunohistochemical staining confirmed B-cell lymphoma. Chemotherapy was initiated immediately. PET/CT at the follow-up evaluation showed that the hepatosplenomegaly and bone marrow-related accumulation of contrast agents had resolved, but the accumulation of contrast agents in the mediastinal lymph nodes and the left upper lobe mass persisted, despite shrinkage. A bronchoscopy and mediastinal lymph node biopsy were performed. Histopathological examination revealed that the lung mass was most likely a small-cell carcinoma of the lung. Clinically, the malignant lymphoma was considered intravascular large B-cell lymphoma. As a result of appropriate treatment for both cancers, the patient's survival period improved.

A 67-year-old woman presented with a palpable breast mass. A biopsy was taken, and the diagnosis was squamous cell carcinoma. Primary squamous cell carcinoma of breast is an extremely rare subtype of invasive breast cancer. The diagnosis requires ruling out metastasis of other sites and that is not skin origin. The patient was referred to 18 F-FDG PET/CT for diagnosis and staging. In this report, we present PET/CT and postsurgical pathology findings.

In order to explore the huge impact of impaired immnue homeostasis on the occurrence and development of cutaneous squamous cell carcinoma (cSCC), and investigate characterization of the cellular components and their changes which is crucial to understanding the pathologic process of HPV-induced cSCC, we diagnosed and followed up on a very rare HPV-induced cSCC patient who progressed at a very fast rate and transferred to death quickly. We performed single-cell RNA sequencing (scRNA-seq) of 11 379 cells from the skin tissues of this patient with four different skin statuses after HPV infection. Immunofluorescence experiments were used for validation. scRNA-seq identified that CD52<sup>+</sup> HLA-DOA<sup>-</sup> macrophages only existed in paracancerous cutaneous squamous cell carcinoma (pc-cSCC) and cSCC tissue. Besides, immune cells including CD8<sup>+</sup> exhausted T cells and CD4<sup>+</sup> regulatory T cells as well as matrix cells like MMP1<sup>+</sup>, and MMP11<sup>+</sup> fibroblasts were gradually increased. Meanwhile, COMP<sup>+</sup> ASPN<sup>+</sup> fibroblasts gradually decreased. Cell interaction analysis revealed enhancement in interactions between monocytes/macrophages, fibroblasts and tumour-specific keratinocytes. scRNA-seq was performed in HPV-induced cSCC for the first time, to explore the correlation between infection and tumour. It is the first time to study the development of tumours from different stages of infection in HPV-induced cSCC. In this study, the tumour itself and the tumour microenvironment were both analysed and explored. And it was validated in clinical samples from different patients. Our findings reveal the dynamic immnue homeostasis from normal skin to cSCC tissue, this alteration might drive HPV-induced cSCC.

Varicella-zoster virus (VZV) is the etiological agent of chickenpox and shingles, diseases characterised by epidermal virus replication in skin and mucosa and the formation of blisters. We have previously shown that VZV infection has a profound effect on keratinocyte differentiation, altering the normal pattern of epidermal gene expression. In particular, VZV infection reduces expression of suprabasal keratins 1 and 10 and desmosomal proteins, disrupting epidermal structure to promote expression of a blistering phenotype. Here, we extend these findings to show that VZV infection upregulates the expression of keratin 15 (KRT15), a marker expressed by basal epidermal keratinocytes and hair follicles stem cells. We demonstrate that KRT15 is essential for VZV replication in the skin, since downregulation of KRT15 inhibits VZV replication in keratinocytes, while KRT15 exogenous overexpression supports viral replication. Importantly, our data show that VZV upregulation of KRT15 depends on the expression of the VZV immediate early gene ORF62. ORF62 is the only regulatory gene that is mutated in the live attenuated VZV vaccine and contains four of the five fixed mutations present in the VZV Oka vaccine. Our data indicate that the mutated vaccine ORF62 is not capable of upregulating KRT15, suggesting that this may contribute to the vaccine attenuation in skin. Taken together our data present a novel association between VZV and KRT15, which may open a new therapeutic window for a topical targeting of VZV replication in the skin via modulation of KRT15.

T cells are dynamically regulated immune cells that are implicated in a variety of diseases ranging from infection, cancer and autoimmunity. Recent advancements in sequencing methods have provided valuable insights in the transcriptional and epigenetic regulation of T cells in various disease settings. In this review, we identify the key sequencing-based methods that have been applied to understand the transcriptomic and epigenomic regulation of T cells in diseases.

Immune checkpoint inhibitors (ICI) have significantly improved overall survival in melanoma patients. However, 60% experience severe adverse events and early response markers are lacking. Circulating tumour DNA (ctDNA) is a promising biomarker for treatment-response and recurrence detection. The prospective PET/LIT study included 104 patients with palliative combined or adjuvant ICI. Tumour-informed sequencing panels to monitor 30 patient-specific variants were designed and 321 liquid biopsies of 87 patients sequenced. Mean sequencing depth after deduplication using UMIs was 6000x and the error rate of UMI-corrected reads was 2.47×10<sup>-4</sup>. Variant allele fractions correlated with PET/CT MTV (rho=0.69), S100 (rho=0.72), and LDH (rho=0.54). A decrease of allele fractions between T1 and T2 was associated with improved PFS and OS in the palliative cohort (p = 0.008 and p < 0.001). ctDNA was detected in 76.9% of adjuvant patients with relapse (n = 10/13), while all patients without progression (n = 9) remained ctDNA negative. Tumour-informed liquid biopsies are a reliable tool for monitoring treatment response and early relapse in melanoma patients with ICI.

Mild autophagy accompanied with immunogenic cell death (ICD) effect destructs immune-associated antigens, weakening the immune response against tumor growth. To address this dilemma, we develop a peptide-based bicomponent nanocarrier with encapsulation of a cellular hyperautophagy activator (STF-62247) for near-infrared (NIR) photo/immunotherapy to eliminate primary and metastatic breast tumors. The electrostatic-driven nanodrug (PPNPs@STF) with active-targeting and efficient endosomal escape can induce specific ICD effect upon NIR laser irradiation, and trigger autophagy to a mild activation state. Notably, the simultaneously released STF-62247 precisely promotes autophagy to an overactivated state, resulting in autophagic death of tumor cells and further boosting ICD-related antigen presentation. More importantly, the combined photo/immunotherapy of PPNPs@STF not only inhibits tumor cell proliferation, but also promotes dendritic cells (DCs)-associated immune response. In 4 T1 tumor-bearing mice, PPNPs@STF effectively inhibits growth of primary and distant tumors, and suppresses lung metastasis with a minimized side effect. This study provides a hyperautophagy activator-assisted strategy that can enhance ICD-based antitumor immune response for the treatment of metastatic breast cancer.

Vδ1 T cells are a subpopulation of γδT cells found in human dermis. Much less is known regarding their role and function in skin health and disease than regarding the roles of murine skin-resident γδT cells. In this study, we report the successful integration of Vδ1 T cells into long-term fibroblast-derived matrix skin equivalents. We isolated Vδ1 T cells from human blood, where they are rare, and established conditions for the integration and maintenance of the freshly isolated Vδ1 T cells in the skin equivalents. Plated on top of the dermal equivalents, almost all Vδ1 T cells migrated into the dermal matrix where they exerted their influence on both the dermal equivalents and the epithelium. Vδ1 T cells contributed to epidermal differentiation of HaCaT cells as indicated by histology, expression of epidermal differentiation markers, and RNA-sequencing expression profile. When complemented with the carcinoma-derived SCC13 cells instead of HaCaT, our data suggest a role for Vδ1 T cells in slowing growth of the tumor cells, as indicated by reduced stratification and changes in gene expression profiles. Together, we demonstrate the successful establishment of human Vδ1 T cell-competent skin equivalents and skin carcinoma equivalents and provide evidence for molecular and functional consequences of the Vδ1 T cells on their respective environment.

Renal ischemia-reperfusion injury (IRI) is a condition that arises from a sudden interruption of the blood flow to the kidney for a period of time followed by restoration of the blood supply. This process contributes to acute kidney injury (AKI), increases morbidity and mortality, and is a major risk factor for chronic kidney disease (CKD). Nuclear factor erythroid-derived 2-like 2 (Nrf2) has been shown to exhibit strong anti-oxidative and anti-inflammatory effects, which are reciprocally regulated by the pro-inflammatory actions of nuclear factor-kappa B (NF-κB) signaling. In this study, we established a model of AKI caused by renal IRI in mice lacking the Nrf2 gene (KO-Nrf2) and mice pre-injected with ML385 (Nrf2 inhibitor). In addition, LPS- or IL-4-induced M1- or M2-type polarized macrophages (RAW264.7), respectively, were also treated with Nrf2 activation and inhibition. The results demonstrated a more pronounced activation of the NF-κB signaling pathway in the Nrf2 inhibition model, accompanied by a more severe inflammatory effect. In cultured macrophages and renal IRI mice, Nrf2 inhibition activated M1 macrophage polarization, thereby increasing the release of proinflammatory cell factors (iNOS and TNF-α) and aggravating renal IRI. Notably, the inhibitory effect of Nrf2 on M1 macrophage polarization was related to the downregulation of the NF-κB signaling pathway activity, resulting in partial relief of renal IRI. Consequently, our findings indicated that Nrf2 inhibits M1 macrophage polarization to ameliorate renal IRI through antagonizing NF-κB signaling. Targeted activation of Nrf2 may be one of the important strategies for renal IRI treatment.

Adenanthin is a structurally unique ent-kaurane diterpenoid isolated from Rabdosia adenantha, a traditional Chinese medicinal plant with potent anti-cancer and anti-inflammatory activities. However, its anti-inflammatory molecular mechanism remains largely elusive to date. Here, we developed an affinity-based label-free protein profiling (ALFPP) to identify potential covalent targets of electrophilic natural products with ketone or aldehyde groups. Using ALFPP, we identified 27 potential covalent targets of adenanthin, among which p65 (RelA) has been associated with its anti-inflammatory activities. Through a series of experiments, including LC-MS/MS, molecular docking, electrophoretic mobility shift assays (EMSA), and genome editing, we demonstrated that adenanthin could covalently modify the Cys38 residue of p65 to affect the binding of DNA to p65, thereby inhibiting the NF-κB signaling pathway. ALFPP will facilitate the target identification of electrophilic carbonylated natural products, especially those containing α, β-unsaturated keto groups. Furthermore, the elucidation of the molecular mechanism of adenanthin will contribute to new drug development of adenanthin to treat inflammations and cancers, enhancing the possibility for its clinical application.

Gomphrena celosioides, popularly known as perpétua, perpétua brava, bachelor´s button and prostate globe amarahth, is used for the treatment of urinary tract disorders, kidney stones, for skin diseases, infectious diseases, gastrointestinal and respiratory conditions. Rich in phenolic acids and flavonoids, this plant has therefore a potential for use in cancer prevention. Given the above, the present research aimed to evaluate the carcinogenic effect of the ethanolic extract of G. celosioides (EEGc) in an alternative model of Drosophila melanogaster and the genotoxic and antigenotoxic effects in Swiss mice. The larval survival test and the detection of epithelial tumor clones were performed in D. melanogaster. The tested EEGc concentrations were 0.96, 1.92, 3.85 and 7.70 mg/mL. In Swiss mice, the genotoxicity and antigenotoxicity of doses of 100, 1,000 and 2,000 mg/Kg were evaluated. The results showed that EEGc at a concentration of 7.70 mg/mL reduced (p<0.05) larval survival. However, EEGc was not carcinogenic, and the lowest concentration (0.96 mg/mL) prevented (p<0.05) the basal occurrence of epithelial tumors. In mice, EEGc at the highest dose (2,000mg/Kg) increased the frequency of genomic lesions (p<0.05). Yet, none of the doses caused chromosomal lesions (p>0.05). When associated with cyclophosphamide, EEGc was antigenotoxic (p<0.05). The percentages of reduction of genomic damage ranged from 33.39 to 63.23% and of chromosomal damage from 20.00 to 77.19%. In view of the above, it is suggested that EEGc is not carcinogenic, has an antigenotoxic effect and chemopreventive properties.

Gomphrena celosioides, popularly known as perpétua, perpétua brava, bachelor´s button and prostate globe amarahth, is used for the treatment of urinary tract disorders, kidney stones, for skin diseases, infectious diseases, gastrointestinal and respiratory conditions. Rich in phenolic acids and flavonoids, this plant has therefore a potential for use in cancer prevention. Given the above, the present research aimed to evaluate the carcinogenic effect of the ethanolic extract of G. celosioides (EEGc) in an alternative model of Drosophila melanogaster and the genotoxic and antigenotoxic effects in Swiss mice. The larval survival test and the detection of epithelial tumor clones were performed in D. melanogaster. The tested EEGc concentrations were 0.96, 1.92, 3.85 and 7.70 mg/mL. In Swiss mice, the genotoxicity and antigenotoxicity of doses of 100, 1,000 and 2,000 mg/Kg were evaluated. The results showed that EEGc at a concentration of 7.70 mg/mL reduced (p<0.05) larval survival. However, EEGc was not carcinogenic, and the lowest concentration (0.96 mg/mL) prevented (p<0.05) the basal occurrence of epithelial tumors. In mice, EEGc at the highest dose (2,000mg/Kg) increased the frequency of genomic lesions (p<0.05). Yet, none of the doses caused chromosomal lesions (p>0.05). When associated with cyclophosphamide, EEGc was antigenotoxic (p<0.05). The percentages of reduction of genomic damage ranged from 33.39 to 63.23% and of chromosomal damage from 20.00 to 77.19%. In view of the above, it is suggested that EEGc is not carcinogenic, has an antigenotoxic effect and chemopreventive properties.

Background & objectives Crohn's disease (CD) is associated with a higher risk of malignancy, which is attributed to disease behaviour and the usage of immunosuppressants. The burden of malignancy in CD is scarcely reported from Asia. We report real-world data on CD-related malignancy from a northern Indian cohort. Methods This retrospective analysis included individuals with CD who were followed up at the All India Institute of Medical Sciences, New Delhi, from 2005 to 2021. The standardized incidence ratio (SIR) was used to calculate the relative risk of malignancy in CD affected individuals compared to the general population. Results In this study, 952 study participants were included, with a mean age at diagnosis of 36.9±15.11 yr; 61.1 per cent were male. The median follow-up duration was 34 months [IQR (interquartile range): 19-73]. Most study participants received steroids (76.7%), immunomodulators (68.7%), or anti-TNF therapy (10.8%). The overall incidence of malignancy was 1.05 per cent, indicating a 10.45 times higher risk in CD [SIR: 10.45; 95% Confidence interval (CI):4.98-17.96]. Eight out of 826, 1 of 106 and 1 of 25 study participants developed malignancy in the first, second and third decades, respectively. The cumulative risk of malignancy was 2.7, 5.5, and 13.4 per cent in the first, second, and third decades, respectively. Regarding bowel malignancies, one study participant each developed ileocaecal adenocarcinoma, anorectal adenocarcinoma, malignant rectal fibrous histiocytoma, and gastric adenocarcinoma. Extraintestinal malignancies included single cases each of follicular neoplasia of the thyroid, neuroendocrine tumour of the pancreatic tail, breast cancer, hepatocellular cancer, oral cancer, and prostate cancer. No cases of lymphoma or skin malignancy were reported. Interpretation & conclusions At 30 yr, the cumulative risk of malignancy among Indian CD-affected individuals was 13.4 per cent, with a SIR of 10.45 (95% CI: 4.98- 17.96). The risk increased with increasing age at disease onset and duration.

Recent studies have demonstrated that ablative fractional laser (AFL) can inhibit the hedgehog pathway, enhance immune infiltration and clear basal cell carcinomas (BCCs) in murine models. In this study, we applied RNA sequencing to further characterise the impact of AFL on the transcriptome of murine skin containing early-stage microscopic BCCs, contrasting it with the effects of topical application of the hedgehog inhibitor vismodegib. Our results showed that BCC induction in murine skin was primarily linked to gene upregulation (significantly upregulated genes: 277, significantly downregulated genes: 24). Characterisation of these genes with Ingenuity Pathway Analysis showed that tumour induction was associated with activation of BCC and Sonic Hedgehog signalling. Both AFL and vismodegib treatments reversed these changes, with vismodegib demonstrating superior performance by reversing most of the upregulated genes (AFL: 59/277; vismodegib: 180/277). Surprisingly, Ingenuity Pathway Analysis also revealed that both AFL and vismodegib treatments caused considerable immune cell infiltration. Based on gene set enrichment analysis and cell type deconvolution, AFL treatment resulted in the largest immune cell recruitment, which for both treatments primarily consisted of infiltrating neutrophils, macrophages and monocytes. In conclusion, the distinct effects observed in BCC skin following AFL and vismodegib treatment suggest key differences between the two interventions. Future applications of AFL or vismodegib treatments could leverage their individual effects, for example by combining the effect of AFL on the immune system with other topical treatments.

Pigment-containing and light-reflecting cell neoplasms, generically termed chromatophoromas, affect fish, reptiles, and amphibians. Chromatophoromas of light-reflecting cells are named iridophoromas. In this study, we aimed to describe the gross, histologic, and ultrastructural findings of 71 cases of iridophoromas in farmed Siamese fighting fish (<i>Betta splendens</i>). Macroscopically, iridophoromas appeared as whitish, gray, or black friable masses or plaques in the fin, trunk/tail, or head of the fish. Forty-five tumors (63%) were malignant and invaded the adjacent skeletal muscle and/or metastasized to other organs, whereas 26 (37%) tumors were restricted only to the skin, but due to the cytologic similarity to the malignant counterpart, we were not able to classify them as malignant or benign. Sixty-five (91%) tumors were classified as iridophoromas, whereas 6 (8%) were diagnosed as mixed chromatophoromas. Despite immunolabeling for PNL-2, melan A, or S-100 failing to demonstrate antigen expression, ultrastructural analysis identified light-reflecting neoplastic cells, unequivocally confirming iridophoromas as the predominant tumor. The high incidence of iridophoromas in Siamese fighting fish from the same breeding facility, coupled with a higher occurrence in royal blue and fancy copper color patterns and in young males, suggests a potential genetic/hereditary factor in the tumorigenesis of these neoplasms.

The skeletal muscle satellite cells (SCs) mediate regeneration of myofibers upon injury. As they switch from maintenance (quiescence) to regeneration, their relative reliance on glucose and fatty acid metabolism alters. To explore the contribution of mitochondrial fatty acid oxidation (FAO) pathway to SCs and myogenesis, we examined the role of carnitine palmitoyltransferase 1A (CPT1A), the rate-limiting enzyme of FAO. CPT1A is highly expressed in quiescent SCs (QSCs) compared with activated and proliferating SCs, and its expression level decreases during myogenic differentiation. Myod1<sup>Cre</sup>-driven overexpression (OE) of Cpt1a in embryonic myoblasts (Cpt1a<sup>MTG</sup>) reduces muscle weight, grip strength, and contractile force without affecting treadmill endurance of adult mice. Adult Cpt1a<sup>MTG</sup> mice have reduced number of SC, impairing muscle regeneration and promoting lipid infiltration. Similarly, Pax7<sup>CreER</sup>-driven, tamoxifen-inducible Cpt1a-OE in QSCs of adult muscles (Cpt1a<sup>PTG</sup>) leads to depletion of SCs and compromises muscle regeneration. The reduced proliferation of Cpt1a-OE SCs is associated with elevated level of acyl-carnitine, and acyl-carnitine treatment impedes proliferation of wildtype SCs. These findings indicate that aberrant level of CPT1A elevates acyl-carnitine to impair the maintenance, proliferation and regenerative function of SCs.

Melanoma is a type of skin cancer that can be challenging to treat, especially in advanced stages. Radiotherapy is one of the main treatment modalities for melanoma, but its efficacy can be limited due to the radioresistance of melanoma cells. Recently, there has been growing interest in using high-Z metal nanoparticles (NPs) to enhance the effectiveness of radiotherapy for melanoma. This review provides an overview of the current state of radiotherapy for melanoma and discusses the physical and biological mechanisms of radiosensitization through high-Z metal NPs. Additionally, it summarizes the latest research on using high-Z metal NPs to sensitize melanoma cells to radiation, both <i>in vitro</i> and <i>in vivo</i>. By examining the available evidence, this review aims to shed light on the potential of high-Z metal NPs in improving radiotherapy outcomes for patients with melanoma.

Primary atopic disorders (PAD) are monogenic disorders caused by pathogenic gene variants encoding proteins that are key for the maintenance of a healthy skin barrier and a well-functioning immune system. Physicians face the challenge to find single, extremely rare PAD patients/families among the millions of individuals with common allergic diseases. We describe case scenarios with signature PAD. We review the literature and deduct specific clinical red flags for PAD detection. They include a positive family history and/or signs of pathological susceptibility to infections, immunodysregulation, or syndromic disease. Results of conventional laboratory and most immunological lab studies are not sufficient to make a definitive diagnosis of PAD. In the past, multistep narrowing of differential diagnoses by various immunological and other laboratory tests led to testing of single genes or gene panel analyses, which was a time-consuming and often unsuccessful approach. The implementation of whole-genomic analyses in the routine diagnostics has led to a paradigm shift. Upfront genome-wide analysis by whole genome sequencing (WGS) will shorten the time to diagnosis, save patients from unnecessary investigations, and reduce morbidity and mortality. We propose a rational, clinical landmark-based approach for deciding which cases pass the filter for carrying out early WGS. WGS result interpretation requires a great deal of caution regarding the causal relationship of variants in PAD phenotypes and absence of proof by adequate functional tests. In case of negative WGS results, a re-iteration attitude with re-analyses of the data (using the latest data base annotation)) may eventually lead to PAD diagnosis. PAD, like many other rare genetic diseases, will only be successfully managed, if physicians from different clinical specialties and geneticists interact regularly in multidisciplinary conferences.

Basosquamous carcinoma (BSC) is a rare form of non-melanoma skin cancer with significant invasive and metastatic potential. This malignancy presents unique challenges in diagnostic and therapeutic options given its ambiguous clinical nature. While there are documented cases of BSC involving the aerodigestive tract and sun-exposed areas like the head and neck, cutaneous BSC in the gluteal and perineal regions remains quite rare. In this report, we provide an overview of the epidemiology, clinical presentation, treatment modalities, and prognosis of this disease. We describe a case of a 71-year-old female who presented for evaluation of a symptomatic right-sided cutaneous lesion in the inner gluteal and perineal region. Upfront surgical resection was pursued for both diagnostic and therapeutic purposes. Final pathology of the lesion revealed infiltrating BSC with negative margins. Although BSC typically presents in sun-exposed areas, the presentation in this patient in a non-sun-exposed area makes this presentation unusual.

To evaluate early complications in prepectoral breast reconstruction.

Automated segmentation of biomedical image has been recognized as an important step in computer-aided diagnosis systems for detection of abnormalities. Despite its importance, the segmentation process remains an open challenge due to variations in color, texture, shape diversity and boundaries. Semantic segmentation often requires deeper neural networks to achieve higher accuracy, making the segmentation model more complex and slower. Due to the need to process a large number of biomedical images, more efficient and cheaper image processing techniques for accurate segmentation are needed. In this article, we present a modified deep semantic segmentation model that utilizes the backbone of EfficientNet-B3 along with UNet for reliable segmentation. We trained our model on Non-melanoma skin cancer segmentation for histopathology dataset to divide the image in 12 different classes for segmentation. Our method outperforms the existing literature with an increase in average class accuracy from 79 to 83%. Our approach also shows an increase in overall accuracy from 85 to 94%.

Racial and ethnic minorities with skin cancer experience disproportionately worse prognoses and adverse outcomes compared to non-Hispanic, White patients. We analyzed patients diagnosed with any cutaneous malignancies of the head and neck between 2010 to 2021 using the data from the National Cancer Database to quantify disparities. The primary outcome variable was treatment refusal, and secondary variables included days from diagnosis to treatment, tumor depth, and mortality. Among the 151,733 patients analyzed, most were non-Hispanic White (99%) and male (71%). Black patients had the greatest odds of treatment refusal (4.166, 95% CI: 2.054-8.452, p < 0.001) across all cutaneous malignancies of the head and neck. Black and Hispanic patients also had increased times from diagnosis to treatment (p < 0.001). Black patients had higher odds of 90-day mortality compared to non-Hispanic White patients (p < 0.001). This coincided with greater tumor depth in Black and Hispanic patients compared to that of non-Hispanic White patients (p < 0.001). Black patients were more likely to refuse treatment for head and neck cutaneous malignancies. Moreover, Black and Hispanic patients experienced more treatment delays. These findings may relate to the increased 90-day mortality among Black patients and increased tumor depth in Black and Hispanic patients. Further investigation into the quality of life and functional impairment is warranted alongside interventions to reduce these disparities.

In this study, we applied a photothermal microscope to study the process of malignant melanoma formation. We analyzed benign papilloma tumors, their metastatic carcinomas, and metastatic melanoma on the preparation of mouse skin using a gray-level co-occurrence matrix (GLCM) method. Based on the analysis of nine GLCM parameters investigated, the characteristics during the degenerative and metastatic processes are clarified by the investigation. The determination of characteristic parameters corresponding to three processes before, during, and after the degeneration indicated that this investigation enables the detection of the malignant transformation and related processes.

The benzoxaborinine scaffold, a homologue of benzoxaborole with an additional carbon atom in the boracycle, shows significant potential in developing new therapeutic agents. This study reports the synthesis, inhibition assays against four human carbonic anhydrase (hCA, EC 4.2.1.1) isoforms, and anti-melanoma evaluation of 7-aryl(thio)ureido-substituted benzoxaborinines. Some derivatives, particularly compound <b>11</b>, exhibited potent inhibitory activity (below 65 nM) against hCA IX and XII and stronger antiproliferative effects than <b>SLC-0111</b> on human melanoma cells under hypoxia. Crystallographic studies of benzoxaborinine <b>3</b> adducts with hCA I and II demonstrated the binding mode of this chemotype, revealing that although both benzoxaborinine <b>3</b> and benzoxaborole <b>10</b> share a similar zinc-binding mode, the expanded ring in benzoxaborinine led to a different orientation within the active site. These findings suggest that benzoxaborinines hold promise for designing novel carbonic anhydrase inhibitors.

Genetic analyses were conducted on tumor samples from 88 patients with uveal melanoma (UM), 6 of whom carry pathogenic germline variants in BAP1. We assessed the frequency, pattern, and prognostic significance of somatic aberrations, and investigated differences between germline BAP1 variant carriers compared to sporadic cases. The frequency of the main oncogenic driver mutations was not significantly different between these groups. Patients with germline BAP1 variants did not have significantly different overall survival compared to the wildtype or somatic BAP1 mutation groups. Patients with a somatic BAP1 mutation (n = 24) had a significantly worse prognosis compared to wildtype (n = 58). All patients with stage III tumors and a somatic BAP1 mutation (n = 7) developed metastasis, however four of 28 stage I-II tumors without metastasis had somatic BAP1 mutations, with observation time >5 years. The tumor from one germline BAP1 carrier (stage IIIC) with a somatic EIF1AX splice variant, has not developed metastasis within a 22-year observation time.

Ruxolitinib, a JAK1/JAK2 inhibitor, has been shown to have lower thromboembolism rates compared to placebo in polycythemia vera (PV) patients. This meta-analysis evaluates ruxolitinib's efficacy and safety against best available therapy (BAT) in patients with PV and in hydroxyurea-resistant/intolerant PV patients. A comprehensive literature search was conducted up to November 2023. We compared ruxolitinib and BAT for efficacy and safety endpoints. Six studies involving 1061 patients were analyzed, with 620 on BAT and 441 on ruxolitinib. Ruxolitinib showed higher hematocrit control (p = 0.015) and treatment response (p = 0.04) compared to BAT. It also significantly improved Myeloproliferative Neoplasms-Symptom Assessment Form scores (MPN-SAF) (p < 0.01). Additionally, patients with PV treated with ruxolitinib had higher rates of nonmelanoma skin cancer (p < 0.01). In subgroup analyses focusing on patients resistant or intolerant to hydroxyurea, ruxolitinib maintained its efficacy, significantly improving treatment response (p < 0.01) and significant improvements in MPN-SAF (p = 0.02) score when compared to BAT. The safety profile was consistent with the overall analyses, showing significantly reduced thromboembolism rates (p = 0.04), increased rates of anemia (p = 0.01), and increased herpes zoster infections (p = 0.02). Ruxolitinib outperforms BAT in PV and patients with PV-resistant or intolerant to hydroxyurea, offering better hematocrit control and reducing symptomatic burden and thromboembolism risk. Yet, it is associated with higher rates of anemia, herpes infection, and skin cancer.

Pathology is pivotal in diagnosing skin tumors, and the precision of diagnosis is crucial to devise customized treatment plans and enhance patient care in dermatology. The latest edition of the World Health Organization's classification of skin tumors serves as a comprehensive compendium, summarizing and categorizing all recent advancements in both anatomical-pathological and molecular aspects of cutaneous neoplasms. Several relevant advances have been introduced and new entities have been described. While the fundamental structure of the classification remains unchanged, notable additions include three new sections aimed at providing a more exhaustive description of skin lesions: nail unit tumors, skin metastases, and genetic tumor syndromes associated with skin malignancies. Recent strides in molecular pathology have led to significant breakthroughs in decoding the underlying mechanisms of various skin tumors, ranging from adnexal neoplasms to hematolymphoid neoplasms, soft tissue tumors, and melanocytic lesions. Of particular importance is the evolution in our understanding of melanocytic neoplasms, with the introduction of the term "melanocytoma" reserved for lesions exhibiting "intermediate" biological behavior and characterized by specific molecular mutations. The pathologic diagnosis process integrates morphological, immunohistochemical, and molecular features, playing a crucial role in clinical decision-making. The WHO classification serves as a valuable tool in promoting multidisciplinarity in the management of cutaneous neoplasms with the aim of translating novel pathological discoveries into more effective treatments. This review aims to distill the major updates introduced by the new classification, providing a synthesis of the latest scientific insights.

One in every three cancers diagnosed is a skin cancer. Europe has the global lead in the number of UV-attributable cancer cases with the highest number of melanoma cases worldwide and the second highest number of keratinocyte cancers (KC). Further increases are expected in Europe for the coming decades. Projected increases are highest for KC with increases in incidence around 40% and increases in mortality around 50%, with KC mortality in males approximating melanoma mortality in females. The two main drivers for this skin cancer epidemic are ageing of the population but especially UV exposure. In conclusion, skin cancer represents a major challenge in the cancer field in Europe today and will continue to do so in the coming decades. This calls for a European skin cancer action plan intended to reduce avoidable UV exposure and to prepare the healthcare system to safeguard early diagnosis and treatment of skin cancer.

Cutaneous squamous cell carcinoma (cSCC) is a common skin cancer, typically affecting older White males in sun-exposed areas, and metastasis is rare. We present a unique case of a 46-year-old obese African-American woman with a recurrent, deep abscess in her left axilla. It was initially treated with several incision and drainage procedures and antibiotics. Despite multiple interventions, the abscess recurred with severe pain and drainage. Subsequent biopsies revealed a high-grade malignant neoplasm, later confirmed as poorly differentiated cSCC with primary metastases to the lungs and secondary metastases to the adrenal glands and periaortic lymph nodes. Immunohistochemical staining supported the diagnosis. The patient's atypical presentation, including her race, a non-sun-exposed site, and younger age, highlights the need for vigilance in diagnosing cSCC in atypical cases. This case underscores the importance of early consideration of cSCC in differential diagnoses for persistent or recurrent abscesses, which can facilitate timely treatment, potentially preventing extensive metastasis and improving patient outcomes.

Advanced melanoma is considered the most aggressive and deadly form of skin cancer whose incidence has been rising over the past three decades. In the absence of treatment, the median overall survival for advanced-stage metastatic disease is less than 6 months. Although most melanomas detected at an early stage can be cured with surgery, a subset of these eventually metastasize. Therefore, a critical need exists to identify unique molecular features that would be predictive of long-term outcome and response to specific therapies. Recent promising therapeutic regimens have included the use of immune checkpoint inhibitors, such as anti-PD1 antibodies. However, the ability to identify responders and non-responders to this therapy remains elusive. To address this challenge at the molecular level, previously our laboratory identified the emergence of a stem cell phenotype associated with advanced melanoma and other aggressive forms of cancer. Underlying this phenotype is the aberrant re-expression of the embryonic morphogen "Nodal". Particularly noteworthy, we have observed Nodal to remain in advanced tumors of non-responders to standard-of-care therapies (i.e., BRAFi). This pilot study is the first proof-of-principle attempt to predict treatment response survival outcome in a small cohort of melanoma patients receiving anti-PD1 immune checkpoint inhibitor therapy - based on their Nodal expression profile. Using advanced multiplex immunohistochemistry-based digital pathology, the major finding of this preliminary study indicates that higher Nodal expression is often associated with poorer overall survival after anti-PD1 therapy, reaching nearly statistical relevance.

Melanoma is one of the most severe skin cancer indications with rapid progression and a high risk of metastasis. However, despite the accumulated advances in melanoma treatment including adjuvant radiation, chemotherapy, and immunotherapy, the overall melanoma treatment efficacy in the clinics is still not satisfactory. Interestingly, bacterial therapeutics have demonstrated unique properties for tumor-related therapeutic applications, such as tumor-targeted motility, tailorable cytotoxicity, and immunomodulatory capacity of the tumor microenvironment, which have emerged as a promising platform for melanoma therapy. Indeed, the recent advances in genetic engineering and nanotechnologies have boosted the application potential of bacterium-based therapeutics for treating melanoma by further enhancing their tumor-homing, cell-killing, drug delivery, and immunostimulatory capacities. This review provides a comprehensive summary of the state-of-the-art bacterium-based anti-melanoma modalities, which are categorized according to their unique functional merits, including tumor-specific cytotoxins, tumor-targeted drug delivery platforms, and immune-stimulatory agents. Furthermore, a perspective is provided discussing the potential challenges and breakthroughs in this area. The insights in this review may facilitate the development of more advanced bacterium-based therapeutic modalities for improved melanoma treatment efficacy.

Siloxanes, commonly known as silicones, are polymeric compounds made up of silicon and oxygen atoms bonded together alternately. Within this group of substances are linear methyl-siloxanes and cyclic methyl-siloxanes, with octamethylcyclotetrasiloxane (D4) and decamethylcyclopentasiloxane (D5) being the most produced and used industrially. Due to their versatility, high production volume, stability, and local presence in environmental matrices and biological fluids such as breast milk, fat, and plasma, siloxanes have been considered persistent organic pollutants, representing a public health problem. This represents a public health concern, especially when different investigations have reported potential endocrine effects at the reproductive level in experimental animals exposed to D4 and D5. The objective of this study was to review the potential reproductive and endocrine effects derived from siloxanes present in personal care products (PCPs). The results of the literature review confirmed that D4 and D5 were the most used siloxanes as additives in PCP because they improve the emollient properties of the cosmetic and the physical appearance of hair and skin. Similarly the toxicological effects of siloxanes, particularly D4, D5, and D6 included significant endocrine disruption, reproductive toxicity, and liver toxicity. Studies in SD and F-344 rats, commonly used to assess these effects, have shown that D4 has low estrogenic activity, binding to ER-α receptors, whereas D5 does not bind to estrogen receptors. D4 exposure has been associated with increased uterine weight and estrous cycle alterations, leading to prolonged exposure to estrogens, which raises the risk of endometrial hyperproliferation and carcinogenesis. Recent research highlights that D5 exposure disrupts follicle growth, endometrial receptivity, and steroidogenesis, resulting in infertility and hormonal imbalances, potentially causing disorders like endometriosis and increased cancer risk. Chronic exposure to D5 has been linked to the development of uterine endometrial adenocarcinoma, with higher doses further elevating this risk.

Gas gangrene is a rare presentation of a necrotizing fasciitis, caused by Clostridium perfringens, C. septicum and other clostridial species. With its rapid progression it is a potentially life-threatening infection, that poses as a challenge in the clinical management requiring an interdisciplinary approach.Here we present a 62-year-old woman, who developed neutropenic fever while undergoing chemotherapy for triple negative breast cancer. She presented with a high fever, reporting little pain in her left thigh accompanied by redness and induration locally. Subsequently the patient developed pain and redness of the back of the left hand. The initial findings suggested cellulitis and immediate empiric treatment with intravenous meropenem was started. Despite the antibiotic treatment the patient rapidly developed septic shock along with progression of the local infection. Emergency surgical debridement revealed extensive necrosis of the soft tissues including extensive myonecrosis of the thigh. On the left hand an extensive debridement was performed, the left lower limb could not be preserved and exarticulation of the left hip was required. Microbiologically C. septicum was isolated in different samples, confirming gas gangrene. As there was no local entry portal on the skin, hematogenous seeding from intestinal translocation in this neutropenic patient was suspected. The empiric antibiotic treatment was tailored to intravenous penicillin and complemented with clindamycin for toxin inhibition. Following radical debridement and antibiotic treatment, the patient could be stabilized. After repetitive debridement wound closure was achieved and the patient was discharged for rehabilitation. Antibiotic treatment was continued for four weeks.This rare case of gas gangrene in a neutropenic patient shows the complexity in the diagnostic and therapeutic management of necrotizing soft tissue infections in immunocompromised patients. It particularly highlights the importance of an interdisciplinary management with fast recognition of the disease and rapid, if needed radical, surgical debridement as well as tailored antibiotic treatment for a successful outcome.

This study examines the effects of comprehensive nursing care on hand-foot syndrome (HFS) in breast cancer patients treated with capecitabine. A retrospective analysis was conducted on 71 patients, divided into a study group receiving comprehensive care and a control group receiving conventional care. Results showed that the study group experienced significant improvements in skin symptoms, self-efficacy, quality of life, and lower anxiety and depression levels compared to the control group. Additionally, patients who were compliant with medications were notably better in the study group. Comprehensive care effectively alleviates the symptoms of hand-foot syndrome in breast cancer patients treated with capecitabine and enhances patient well-being.

From the viewpoints of the advantage depths (ADs), peak tumor dose and skin dose, we evaluated the effect on the dose distribution of neutron beam properties, namely the ratio between thermal and epithermal neutron fluxes (thermal/epithermal ratio), fast neutron component and γ-ray component. Several parameter surveys were conducted with respect to the beam properties of neutron sources for boron neutron capture therapy assuming boronophenylalanine as the boron agent using our dose calculation tool, called SiDE. The ADs decreased by 3% at a thermal/epithermal ratio of 20-30% compared with the current recommendation of 5%. The skin dose increased with the increasing thermal/epithermal ratio, reaching a restricted value of 14 Gyeq at a thermal/epithermal ratio of 48%. The fast neutron component was modified using two different models, namely the 'linear model', in which the fast neutron intensity decreases log-linearly with the increasing neutron energy, and the 'moderator thickness (MT) model', in which the fast neutron component is varied by adjusting the MT in a virtual beam shaping assembly. Although a higher fast neutron component indicated a higher skin dose, the increment was <10% at a fast neutron component of <1 × 10-12 Gy cm2 for both models. Furthermore, in the MT model, the epithermal neutron intensity at a fast neutron component of 6.8 × 10-13 Gy cm2 was 41% higher compared with that of 2 × 10-13 Gy cm2. The γ-ray component also caused no significant disadvantages up to several times larger compared with the current recommendation.

Acquisition of specific cell shapes and morphologies is a central component of cell fate transitions. Although signaling circuits and gene regulatory networks that regulate pluripotent stem cell differentiation have been intensely studied, how these networks are integrated in space and time with morphological transitions and mechanical deformations to control state transitions remains a fundamental open question. Here, we focus on two distinct models of pluripotency, primed pluripotent stem cells and pre-implantation inner cell mass cells of human embryos to discover that cell fate transitions associate with rapid changes in nuclear shape and volume which collectively alter the nuclear mechanophenotype. Mechanistic studies in human induced pluripotent stem cells further reveal that these phenotypical changes and the associated active fluctuations of the nuclear envelope arise from growth factor signaling-controlled changes in chromatin mechanics and cytoskeletal confinement. These collective mechano-osmotic changes trigger global transcriptional repression and a condensation-prone environment that primes chromatin for a cell fate transition by attenuating repression of differentiation genes. However, while this mechano-osmotic chromatin priming has the potential to accelerate fate transitions and differentiation, sustained biochemical signals are required for robust induction of specific lineages. Our findings uncover a critical mechanochemical feedback mechanism that integrates nuclear mechanics, shape and volume with biochemical signaling and chromatin state to control cell fate transition dynamics.

Bio-impedance Spectroscopy (BIS) is a technique that allows tissue analysis to diagnose a variety of diseases, such as medical imaging, cancer diagnosis, muscle fatigue detection, glucose measurement, and others under research. The development of CMOS integrated circuit front-ends for bioimpedance analysis is required by the increasing use of wearable devices in the healthcare field, as they offer key features for battery-powered wearable devices. These features include high miniaturization, low power consumption, and low voltage power supply. A key circuit in BIS systems is the current source, and one of the most common topology is the Enhanced Howland Current Source (EHCS). EHCS is also used when the current driver is driven by a pseudo-random signal like discrete interval binary sequences (DIBS), which, due to its broadband nature, requires high performance operational amplifiers. These facts lead to the need for a current source more compatible with DIBS signals, ultra-low power supply, standard CMOS integrated circuit, output current amplitude independent of input voltage amplitude, high output impedance, high load capability, high output voltage swing, and the possibility of tetra-polar BIS analysis, that is a pseudotetra-polar in the case of EHCS. The objective of this work is to evaluate the performance of the Switching CMOS Current Source (SCMOSCS) over EHCS using a Cole-skin model as a load using SPICE simulations (DC and AC sweeps and transient analysis). The SCMOSCS demonstrated an output impedance of more than 20 <i>M</i>Ω, a ± 2.5 <i>V</i> output voltage swing from a +3.3 V supply, a 275 <i>μA</i> current consumption, and a 10 <i>k</i>Ω load capacity. These results contrast with the + 1.5 V output voltage swing, the 3 <i>k</i>Ω load capacity, and the 4.9 <i>mA</i> current of the EHCS case.

Skin cancer, a prevalent malignancy worldwide, poses significant health concerns owing to its increasing incidence. Autophagy, a natural cellular process, is a pivotal event in skin cancer and has advantageous and detrimental effects. This duality has prompted extensive investigations into medical interventions targeting autophagy modulation for their substantial therapeutic potential. This systematic review aimed to investigate the relationship between skin cancer and autophagy and the contribution and mechanism of autophagy modulators in skin cancer. We outlined the effectiveness and safety of targeting autophagy as a promising therapeutic strategy for the treatment of skin cancer. This comprehensive review identified a diverse array of autophagy modulators with promising potential for the treatment of skin cancer. Each of these compounds demonstrates efficacy through distinct physiological mechanisms that have been elucidated in detail. Interestingly, findings from a literature search indicated that none of the natural, synthetic, or semisynthetic compounds exhibited notable adverse effects in either human or animal models. Consequently, this review offers novel mechanistic and therapeutic perspectives on the targeted modulation of autophagy in skin cancer.

Hereditary cancer syndromes (HCS) are responsible for up to 10% of all cancers. At present, the majority of cancer susceptibility testing is initiated after a cancer diagnosis. There exists a significant opportunity for primary care providers including general obstetrician-gynecologists to engage in hereditary cancer risk assessment through adequate family history evaluation, initiation of genetic testing, and following the recommendations of national organizations. Identifying hereditary cancer genes may prompt primary prevention efforts such as enhanced screening, prevention, or personalized care strategies. We will review the literature regarding the approach and assessment of the most common gynecologic HCS.

The human body possesses natural barriers, such as skin and mucosa, which limit the effective delivery of therapeutics and integration of medical devices to target tissues. Various strategies have been deployed to breach these barriers mechanically, chemically, or electronically. The development of various penetration enhancers (PEs) offers a promising solution due to their ability to increase tissue permeability using readily available reagents. However, existing PE-mediated delivery methods often rely on weak gel or liquid drug formulations, which are not ideal for sustained local delivery. Hydrogel adhesives that can seamlessly interface biological tissues with controlled drug delivery could potentially resolve these issues. Here, we demonstrate that tough adhesion between drug-laden hydrogels and biological tissue (<i>e.g.</i> skin and tumours) can lead to effective local delivery of drugs deep into targeted tissues by leveraging the enhanced tissue penetration mediated by PEs. The drug release profile of the hydrogel adhesives can be fine-tuned by further engineering the nanocomposite hydrogel matrix to elute chemotherapeutics from 2 weeks to 2 months. Using a 3D tumour spheroid model, we demonstrated that PEs increased the cancer-killing effectiveness of doxorubicin by facilitating its delivery into tumour microtissues. Therefore, the proposed tough bioadhesion and drug delivery strategy modulated by PEs holds promise as a platform technique to develop next-generation wearable and implantable devices for cancer management and regenerative medicine.

Cutaneous malignant melanoma is the most aggressive and the deadliest form of skin cancer. There are two types of limitations which universally exist in current melanoma therapy: Adverse effects and reduced efficiency. Cytoglobin (CYGB), an iron hexacoordinated globin, is highly enriched in melanocytes and frequently epigenetically silenced during melanoma genesis. The present study aimed to explore its potential role as a biomarker for ferroptosis treatment. It was observed that B16F10 and A375 melanoma cells with loss of CYGB expression were highly sensitive to ferroptosis inducers RSL3 and erastin, whereas G361 melanoma cells with highly enriched CYGB were resistant to RSL3 or erastin. Ectopically overexpressed CYGB rendered B16F10 and A375 cells resistant to RSL3 or erastin, accompanied by decreased proliferation and epithelial‑mesenchymal transition (EMT). By contrast, knockdown of CYGB expression made G361 cells sensitive to ferroptosis induction but induced proliferation and EMT progression of G361 cells. Mechanistically, CYGB‑induced resistance of melanoma cells to ferroptosis may have been associated, in part, with i) Suppression of EMT; ii) upregulation of glutathione peroxidase 4 expression; iii) decrease of labile iron pool. <i>In vivo</i> study also demonstrated that CYGB overexpression rendered xenograft melanoma much more resist to RSL3 treatment. Based on these findings, CYGB is a potential therapeutic biomarker to screen the melanoma patients who are most likely benefit from ferroptosis treatment.

Cutaneous malignant melanoma is the most aggressive and the deadliest form of skin cancer. There are two types of limitations which universally exist in current melanoma therapy: Adverse effects and reduced efficiency. Cytoglobin (CYGB), an iron hexacoordinated globin, is highly enriched in melanocytes and frequently epigenetically silenced during melanoma genesis. The present study aimed to explore its potential role as a biomarker for ferroptosis treatment. It was observed that B16F10 and A375 melanoma cells with loss of CYGB expression were highly sensitive to ferroptosis inducers RSL3 and erastin, whereas G361 melanoma cells with highly enriched CYGB were resistant to RSL3 or erastin. Ectopically overexpressed CYGB rendered B16F10 and A375 cells resistant to RSL3 or erastin, accompanied by decreased proliferation and epithelial‑mesenchymal transition (EMT). By contrast, knockdown of CYGB expression made G361 cells sensitive to ferroptosis induction but induced proliferation and EMT progression of G361 cells. Mechanistically, CYGB‑induced resistance of melanoma cells to ferroptosis may have been associated, in part, with i) Suppression of EMT; ii) upregulation of glutathione peroxidase 4 expression; iii) decrease of labile iron pool. <i>In vivo</i> study also demonstrated that CYGB overexpression rendered xenograft melanoma much more resist to RSL3 treatment. Based on these findings, CYGB is a potential therapeutic biomarker to screen the melanoma patients who are most likely benefit from ferroptosis treatment.

Integration of reconstructed human skin (RhS) into organ-on-chip (OoC) platforms addresses current limitations imposed by static culturing. This innovation, however, is not without challenges. Microfluidic devices, while powerful, often encounter usability, robustness, and gas bubble issues that hinder large-scale high-throughput setups. This study aims to develop a novel re-usable multi-well microfluidic adaptor (MMA) with the objective to provide a flexible tool for biologists implementing complex 3D biological models (e.g., skin) while enabling simultaneous user control over temperature, medium flow, oxigen (O<sub>2</sub>), nitrogen (N<sub>2</sub>), and carbon dioxide (CO<sub>2</sub>) without the need for an incubator. The presented MMA device is designed to be compatible with standard, commercially available 6-well multi-well plates (6MWPs) and 12-well transwells. This MMA-6MWP setup is employed to generate a skin-on-chip (SoC). RhS viability is maintained under flow for three days and their morphology closely resembles that of native human skin. A proof-of-concept study demonstrates the system's potential in toxicology applications by combining endothelialised RhS with flowing immune cells. This dynamic setting activates the monocyte-like MUTZ-3 cells (CD83 and CD86 upregulation) upon topical exposure of RhS to a sensitizer, revealing the MMA-6MWP's unique capabilities compared to static culturing, where such activation is absent.

Cutaneous chronic graft-versus-host disease (cGVHD) is associated with morbidity, mortality, and impaired quality of life after hematopoietic stem cell transplantation. The clinical features of cutaneous cGVHD are heterogeneous but can be broadly classified into nonsclerotic or sclerotic presentations. This review provides an overview of clinical presentation, diagnosis and differential diagnosis, grading, and treatment of cutaneous cGVHD. Particular attention is given to cutaneous cGVHD in skin of color, which can have unique features and is generally underrepresented in the literature leading to delays in diagnosis. Finally, an overview of long-term skin care for patients with cutaneous cGVHD is provided in order to support patients from a dermatologic perspective as they recover from cGVHD. Multidisciplinary care with frequent communication between transplant specialists and dermatologists is critical to effectively managing cutaneous cGVHD.

Dendritic cells (DCs) are essential for antitumor T-cell responses to immune checkpoint inhibitor therapies. We have previously reported that the secreted protein neudesin suppresses DC function. In contrast, neudesin has been found to be abundantly expressed in human cancers. In this study, we evaluated the role of neudesin in cancer immunity. Cancer-related database analysis revealed that patients with melanoma with low neudesin expression exhibited increased infiltration of DCs and CD8<sup>+</sup> T cells and improved outcomes of checkpoint inhibitor therapy. In mouse tumor models, neudesin deficiency delayed tumor growth and increased the proportions of Type 1 conventional DCs (cDC1s) and tumor antigen-specific CD8<sup>+</sup> T cells in tumors and tumor-infiltrating lymph nodes. Neudesin-deficient antitumor cDC1 vaccine enhanced the systemic immunity more effectively than the wild-type cDC1 vaccine. Overall, our findings highlight the importance of neudesin in cancer immunity, providing a novel target for immunotherapy.

Dendritic cells (DCs) are essential for antitumor T-cell responses to immune checkpoint inhibitor therapies. We have previously reported that the secreted protein neudesin suppresses DC function. In contrast, neudesin has been found to be abundantly expressed in human cancers. In this study, we evaluated the role of neudesin in cancer immunity. Cancer-related database analysis revealed that patients with melanoma with low neudesin expression exhibited increased infiltration of DCs and CD8<sup>+</sup> T cells and improved outcomes of checkpoint inhibitor therapy. In mouse tumor models, neudesin deficiency delayed tumor growth and increased the proportions of Type 1 conventional DCs (cDC1s) and tumor antigen-specific CD8<sup>+</sup> T cells in tumors and tumor-infiltrating lymph nodes. Neudesin-deficient antitumor cDC1 vaccine enhanced the systemic immunity more effectively than the wild-type cDC1 vaccine. Overall, our findings highlight the importance of neudesin in cancer immunity, providing a novel target for immunotherapy.

Studies have shown that the Zinc finger homeobox 4 (ZFHX4) might be a factor in the prognosis of malignancies. However, little is known about the association between the ZFHX4 mutation and the effectiveness of immune checkpoint inhibitors (ICIs) in non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) and melanoma. Three public ICIs-treated NSCLC cohorts were divided into discovery cohort (n=75) and validation cohort (n=62), which were used to evaluate the relationship between ZFHX4 mutation and ICIs effectiveness in NSCLC. Seven ICIs-treated melanoma cohorts (n = 418) were used to analyze the relationship between ZFHX4 mutation and immunotherapy efficacy in melanoma. NSCLC and skin cutaneous melanoma (SKCM) cohorts from The Cancer Genome Atlas (TCGA) were used to investigate underlying mechanism. Patients with ZFHX4 mutant-type (ZFHX4-Mut) showed a superior objective response rate (ORR) (P < 0.01) and longer progression-free survival (PFS) (P < 0.05) than patients with ZFHX4 wild-type (ZFHX4-WT) in NSCLC cohorts. In the melanoma cohorts, patients carrying ZFHX4-Mut had a higher ORR (P = 0.042) and longer overall survival (OS) (P = 0.011). Besides, patients with NSCLC and melanoma harboring ZFHX4-Mut had a higher tumor mutation burden (TMB) (P<0.001) and tumor neoantigen burden (TNB) (P<0.001) than those harboring ZFHX4-WT. ZFHX4 mutation was associated with higher levels of plasma B cells, activated CD4+ memory T cells, and CD8+ T cells. Seven DNA damage repair pathways were significantly enriched in the ZFHX4-Mut group. ZFHX4 mutation could serve as a predicter for the efficacy of ICIs therapy in NSCLC and melanoma.

Studies have shown that the Zinc finger homeobox 4 (ZFHX4) might be a factor in the prognosis of malignancies. However, little is known about the association between the ZFHX4 mutation and the effectiveness of immune checkpoint inhibitors (ICIs) in non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) and melanoma. Three public ICIs-treated NSCLC cohorts were divided into discovery cohort (n=75) and validation cohort (n=62), which were used to evaluate the relationship between ZFHX4 mutation and ICIs effectiveness in NSCLC. Seven ICIs-treated melanoma cohorts (n = 418) were used to analyze the relationship between ZFHX4 mutation and immunotherapy efficacy in melanoma. NSCLC and skin cutaneous melanoma (SKCM) cohorts from The Cancer Genome Atlas (TCGA) were used to investigate underlying mechanism. Patients with ZFHX4 mutant-type (ZFHX4-Mut) showed a superior objective response rate (ORR) (P < 0.01) and longer progression-free survival (PFS) (P < 0.05) than patients with ZFHX4 wild-type (ZFHX4-WT) in NSCLC cohorts. In the melanoma cohorts, patients carrying ZFHX4-Mut had a higher ORR (P = 0.042) and longer overall survival (OS) (P = 0.011). Besides, patients with NSCLC and melanoma harboring ZFHX4-Mut had a higher tumor mutation burden (TMB) (P<0.001) and tumor neoantigen burden (TNB) (P<0.001) than those harboring ZFHX4-WT. ZFHX4 mutation was associated with higher levels of plasma B cells, activated CD4+ memory T cells, and CD8+ T cells. Seven DNA damage repair pathways were significantly enriched in the ZFHX4-Mut group. ZFHX4 mutation could serve as a predicter for the efficacy of ICIs therapy in NSCLC and melanoma.

Adjuvant anti-PD-1 therapy improves relapse free survival in stage III melanoma, but also leads to immune-related adverse events (irAEs). Older patients are of particular interest due to comorbidities and frailty, which may impact their ability to tolerate irAEs and benefit from anti-PD-1 therapy. This study aimed to explore associations between clinical parameters and the occurrence of grade ≥ 3 irAEs and recurrence-free survival (RFS) in older patients with radically resected stage III/IV cutaneous melanoma treated with adjuvant anti-PD-1 therapy.

Adjuvant anti-PD-1 therapy improves relapse free survival in stage III melanoma, but also leads to immune-related adverse events (irAEs). Older patients are of particular interest due to comorbidities and frailty, which may impact their ability to tolerate irAEs and benefit from anti-PD-1 therapy. This study aimed to explore associations between clinical parameters and the occurrence of grade ≥ 3 irAEs and recurrence-free survival (RFS) in older patients with radically resected stage III/IV cutaneous melanoma treated with adjuvant anti-PD-1 therapy.

Adjuvant anti-PD-1 therapy improves relapse free survival in stage III melanoma, but also leads to immune-related adverse events (irAEs). Older patients are of particular interest due to comorbidities and frailty, which may impact their ability to tolerate irAEs and benefit from anti-PD-1 therapy. This study aimed to explore associations between clinical parameters and the occurrence of grade ≥ 3 irAEs and recurrence-free survival (RFS) in older patients with radically resected stage III/IV cutaneous melanoma treated with adjuvant anti-PD-1 therapy.

Adjuvant anti-PD-1 therapy improves relapse free survival in stage III melanoma, but also leads to immune-related adverse events (irAEs). Older patients are of particular interest due to comorbidities and frailty, which may impact their ability to tolerate irAEs and benefit from anti-PD-1 therapy. This study aimed to explore associations between clinical parameters and the occurrence of grade ≥ 3 irAEs and recurrence-free survival (RFS) in older patients with radically resected stage III/IV cutaneous melanoma treated with adjuvant anti-PD-1 therapy.

Adjuvant anti-PD-1 therapy improves relapse free survival in stage III melanoma, but also leads to immune-related adverse events (irAEs). Older patients are of particular interest due to comorbidities and frailty, which may impact their ability to tolerate irAEs and benefit from anti-PD-1 therapy. This study aimed to explore associations between clinical parameters and the occurrence of grade ≥ 3 irAEs and recurrence-free survival (RFS) in older patients with radically resected stage III/IV cutaneous melanoma treated with adjuvant anti-PD-1 therapy.

HBM4003 is a novel anti-CTLA-4 heavy chain-only antibody, designed to enhance Treg ablation and antibody-dependent cell-mediated cytotoxicity while ensuring a manageable safety profile. This phase I trial investigated the safety, pharmacokinetics, immunogenicity and preliminary efficacy of HBM4003 plus with anti-PD-1 antibody toripalimab in patients with advanced solid tumors, especially focusing on melanoma.

We report a rare case of large facial hyperpigmentation in a 25-year-old female. Starting one month after birth, the patient developed a blue-brown patch on the right side of her face, interspersed with black macules and papules. As she aged, the lesion progressively enlarged and darkened, eventually covering the entire right side of her face. Dermoscopic and reflectance confocal microscopy examinations indicated nevus spilus in some areas and nevus of Ota in others, leading to a definitive diagnosis of overlapping nevus spilus and nevus of Ota. With no signs of malignant transformation on clinical or imaging examination, successful treatment was achieved using Q-switched alexandrite laser without any adverse effects. Our case underscores the critical value of dermoscopy and reflectance confocal microscopy in diagnosing rare facial pigmentary conditions, as we compare the imaging characteristics of nevus spilus, nevus of Ota, and similar conditions, alongside their clinical and histopathological correlations. Furthermore, our findings highlight the significant role of imaging examinations in monitoring malignancy and guiding treatment decisions.

External ear lentigo maligna/lentigo melanoma (LM/LMM) represents approximately 1%-4% of all primary cutaneous melanomas. Over the past 20 years, dermoscopy has proven highly effective in early detection of LM/LMM, with recent studies identifying perifollicular linear projections (PLP) as a specific diagnostic criterion for early LM. However, in clinical practice, LM and LMM turn out to be very difficult to distinguish based on dermoscopic findings. Therefore, our retrospective monocentric study aimed to investigate dermoscopic characteristics, as well as the epidemiological and clinical data of 19 patients diagnosed with the external ear (EE) LM/LMM at the Oncologic Dermatology Unit in Bologna. Dermoscopic images were obtained using the FotoFinder Medicam 800HD, and specific criteria validated by the International Dermoscopy Society (IDS) for atypical pigmented facial lesions were assessed. Fisher's exact test was primarily used for statistical comparisons. As results, most of the patients were male (74%) with an average age (± SD) at diagnosis of 69.8 (± 15.1) years old. LMM appeared more commonly observed in elderly patients as compared to LM (mean 71.6 vs. 66.7, p = 0.514), presenting as pigmented macule (89.5%) of the ear lobule (23.9%). A statistically significant difference (p = 0.01) of tumour' diameter between LMM and LM was reported with the first resulting more than twice the size of the latter. Concerning dermoscopic findings, asymmetric pigmented follicles, obliteration of the follicular openings and grey circles were more frequently observed in LMM compared to LM (63.2% vs. 31.6%; 63.2% vs. 26.3%; 47.4% vs. 15.8%, respectively).

Prolgolimab is a recombinant IgG1-based anti-PD-1 antibody, whose properties were improved by the introduction of the LALA mutation, and which has demonstrated high efficacy in patients with metastatic melanoma. This paper presents the results of comparative preclinical studies of antigen-binding and effector functions involving prolgolimab and conventional IgG4 antibodies, nivolumab and pembrolizumab. None of the studied antibodies had undesirable antibody-dependent cellular cytotoxicity activity. Prolgolimab has shown higher PD-1 receptor occupancy and T-cell activation, but lower propensity to activate antibody-dependent cellular phagocytosis as compared to nivolumab and pembrolizumab. An in vivo study in mice inoculated with CT26.wt cancer cells showed that tumor growth inhibition was 16% for pembrolizumab and 56% for prolgolimab. This study warrants clinical comparison of IgG1- and IgG4-based anti-PD-1 antibodies.

Despite our increasing understanding of macrophage heterogeneity, drivers of macrophage phenotypic and functional polarization in the microenvironment are not fully elucidated. Here, our single-cell RNA sequencing data identify a subpopulation of macrophages expressing high levels of the phagocytic receptor MER proto-oncogene tyrosine kinase (MerTK<sup>+</sup> macrophages), which is closely associated with melanoma progression and immunotherapy resistance. Adoptive transfer of the MerTK<sup>+</sup> macrophages into recipient mice notably accelerated tumor growth regardless of macrophage depletion. Mechanistic studies further revealed that ALK And LTK Ligand 1 (ALKAL1), a target gene of aryl hydrocarbon receptor (AhR), facilitated MerTK phosphorylation, resulting in heightened phagocytic activity of MerTK<sup>+</sup> macrophages and their subsequent polarization toward an immunosuppressive phenotype. Specifically targeted delivery of AhR antagonist to tumor-associated macrophages with mannosylated micelles could suppress MerTK expression and improved the therapeutic efficacy of anti-programmed cell death ligand 1 therapy. Our findings shed light on the regulatory mechanism of MerTK<sup>+</sup> macrophages and provide strategies for improving the efficacy of melanoma immunotherapy.

Ciltacabtagene autoleucel (cilta-cel) CAR-T therapy was approved in 2022 for patients with relapsed/refractory multiple myeloma (RRMM). We report outcomes with cilta-cel in the standard-of-care setting. Patients with RRMM who underwent leukapheresis for cilta-cel manufacturing between 3/1/2022-12/31/2022 at 16 US academic medical centers were included. RESULTS: 255 patients underwent leukapheresis and 236 (92.5%) received cilta-cel. Of leukapheresed patients, 56% would not have met CARTITUDE-1 trial eligibility criteria. Manufacturing failure rates at first attempt and overall were 6% and 1%, respectively. Median prior lines of therapy were 6. In treated patients (N=236), cytokine release syndrome was seen in 75% (>= grade 3: 5%), immune effector cell-associated neurotoxicity syndrome in 14% (>= grade 3: 4%), and delayed neurotoxicity in 10%. Best overall and >= CR rates were as follows: infused patients (N=236): 89% and 70%; patients receiving conforming CAR-T product (N=191) 94% and 74%; conforming CAR-T product with fludarabine/cyclophosphamide lymphodepletion (N=152): 95% and 76%, respectively. Non-relapse mortality was 10%, most commonly from infection. After median follow-up of 13 months from CAR-T, median progression-free survival (PFS) was not reached, with 12- month estimate being 68% (95% CI: 62-74%). High ferritin levels, high-risk cytogenetics, and extramedullary disease were independently associated with inferior PFS, with a signal for prior BCMA-TT (p=0.08). Second primary malignancies (SPMs) excluding non-melanoma skin cancers were seen in 5.5% and myeloid malignancies/acute leukemia in 1.7%. We observed a favorable efficacy profile of standard of care cilta-cel in RRMM despite more than half the patients not meeting CARTITUDE-1 eligibility criteria.

The skin is an effective protective barrier that significantly protects the body from damage caused by external environmental factors. Furthermore, skin condition significantly affects external beauty. In today's era, which is of material and spiritual prosperity, there is growing attention on skincare and wellness. Ultraviolet radiation is one of the most common external factors that lead to conditions like sunburn, skin cancer, and skin aging. In this review, several mechanisms of UV-induced skin cell senescence are discussed, including DNA damage, oxidative stress, inflammatory response, and mitochondrial dysfunction, which have their own characteristics and mutual effects. As an illustration, mitochondrial dysfunction triggers electron evasion and the generation of more reactive oxygen species, leading to oxidative stress and the activation of the NLRP3 inflammasome, which in turn causes mitochondrial DNA (mt DNA) damage. Based on the current mechanism, suitable prevention and treatment strategies are proposed from sunscreen, dietary, and experimental medications respectively, aimed at slowing down skin cell aging and providing protection from ultraviolet radiation. The effects of ultraviolet rays on skin is summarized, offering insights and directions for future studies on mechanism of skin cell senescence, with an anticipation of discovering more effective prevention and cure methods.

Myoepithelial carcinoma is an exceedingly rare malignancy, particularly when originating from the skin. It frequently arises from malignant transformations of pleomorphic adenomas in various locations such as the parotid gland, breast, soft tissues, and lungs. Primary cutaneous myoepithelial carcinoma is exceptionally rare, often leading to delayed diagnosis. We report a case of giant primary cutaneous myoepithelial carcinoma of the left thigh, initially misdiagnosed as squamous cell carcinoma (SCC). The patient, a 64-year-old male, presented with a rapidly enlarging, ulcerated, and necrotic skin lesion. The initial presentation mimicked SCC. Due to the large tumor size and anemia caused by the tumor, the patient underwent a reduced-dose chemotherapy regimen (cytarabine plus aclarubicin chemotherapy) to shrink the tumor, enabling successful local surgical resection. Post-surgery, the patient received radiotherapy and tegafur gimeracil oteracil potassium, resulting in disease control without progression for two years. This case highlights the diagnostic challenges of myoepithelial carcinoma, which can mimic SCC among numerous other tumors. Accurate diagnosis relies on immunohistochemical staining and careful pathological evaluation. The case underscores the importance of considering myoepithelial carcinoma in the differential diagnosis of ulcerative tumors.

Photodynamic Therapy (PDT), as a minimally invasive treatment method, has demonstrated its distinct advantages in the management of skin malignant tumors. This article examines the current application status of PDT, assesses its successful cases and challenges in clinical treatment, and anticipates its future development trends. PDT utilizes photosensitizers to interact with light of specific wavelengths to generate reactive oxygen species that selectively eradicate cancer cells. Despite PDT's exceptional performance in enhancing patients' quality of life and prognosis, the limitation of treatment depth and the side effects of photosensitizers remain unresolved issues. With the advancement of novel photosensitizers and innovative treatment technology, the application prospects of PDT are increasingly expansive. This article delves into the mechanism of PDT, its application in various skin malignancies, its advantages and limitations, and envisions its future development. We believe that through continuous technological enhancements and integration with other treatment technologies, PDT has the potential to assume a more pivotal role in the treatment of skin malignancies.

Cold climate and unique genetic and environmental factors may influence the prevalence of skin diseases in Greenland. However, there is a lack of epidemiological studies on skin diseases in the adult Greenlandic population. To address this unmet need a cross-sectional study, run by dermatologists from Denmark, the UK, and Switzerland estimated the prevalence and clinical manifestations of skin diseases among adults in East Greenland in May 2022. All adults ≥18 years in the town of Tasiilaq were invited, and 295 individuals aged 18-78 years participated (22.5% of the overall adult population in Tasiilaq). Two-hundred and three participants (69%) had visible signs of current skin disease, and among these, 242 cases of dermatoses were identified. The most common skin diseases were hand eczema (22.4%), lichen simplex (9.5%), discoid eczema (7.1%), psoriasis, atopic dermatitis and acne vulgaris (5.8% each). Scabies was the most frequent infectious skin disease (4.4%). No cases of skin cancer were identified. Atopic dermatitis and psoriasis presented with disease that was of limited extent and different from the classical presentations. Skin diseases showed a high prevalence among adults in East Greenland, and some of them were severe. This indicates a noteworthy public health problem that warrants better access to dermatologist support.

Aberrant caspase recruitment domain family member 14 (CARD14) signaling has been strongly associated with inflammatory skin conditions. CARD14 acts as a scaffold protein, ultimately activating the transcription factor NF-KB. Although primarily studied in the context of inflammation, recent research has suggested its potential implications in tumorigenesis. In this study, we gathered The Cancer Genome Atlas (TCGA) tumor data to gauge the involvement of CARD14 in cancer, including genetic alterations, expression patterns, survival correlations, immune cell infiltration and functional interactions across diverse cancer types. We found heightened CARD14 expression in most tumors and there was a significant correlation between CARD14 expression and the prognosis of patients for certain tumors. For instance, patients with higher CARD14 expression had a better prognosis in sarcoma, lung, cervix and head and neck cancers. Moreover, CARD14 expression positively correlated with neutrophil infiltration in most of the cancer types analyzed. Finally, enrichment analysis showed that epithelial development and differentiation pathways were involved in the functional mechanism of CARD14. Our results show that CARD14 may have the potential to become a prognostic biomarker in several cancers, hence, further prospective studies will be required for its validation.

PRAME (PReferentially expressed Antigen in MElanoma) was first identified as a malignant melanoma-specific antigen. Recently, a few cases of fibrosarcomatous dermatofibrosarcoma protuberans (FS-DFSP) were shown to have positivity for PRAME, while conventional dermatofibrosarcoma protuberans (C-DFSP) was negative. Because PRAME may be of diagnostic utility in FS-DFSP and is raising expectations as a new immunotherapy target, we examined the positivity of PRAME in FS-DFSP. Twenty-one cases of FS-DFSP and age/sex/location-matched cases of C-DFSP as a control group were examined by immunohistochemistry for CD34 and PRAME. The results were then evaluated by H-score, which was objectively and semi-quantitatively calculated using the open-source bioimaging analysis software QuPath. The results revealed that the PRAME H-score in FS-DFSP was significantly higher than that in C-DFSP (p = 0.0137). As for CD34, the H-score in FS-DFSP was significantly lower than that in C-DFSP (p < 0.001). Using these two immunohistochemical analyses in combination, the sensitivity and specificity for the diagnosis of FS-DFSP were 86% and 90%, respectively. Double staining of CD34 and PRAME revealed that PRAME-positive and CD34-positive areas did not overlap. This is the largest study to examine PRAME expression in FS-DFSP, and it confirmed the usefulness of PRAME in diagnosing this condition.

Skin cancer is a common disease resulting from genetic defects, and early detection is critical to improve treatment outcomes. Diagnostic programs that use computer aid especially those that use supervised learning are very useful in early diagnosis of skin cancer. This research therefore presents a new approach that integrates optimization methods with supervised learning to improve skin cancer diagnosis using machine vision approach. The presented method is initiated by data pre-processing that involves the removal of unnecessary data. Then, to segment the images, a combination of K-means clustering and social spider optimization technique is employed. The region of interest is then extracted from the segmented image and from this region a convolutional neural network extracts the significant features. To enhance the classification performance as compared with the standard classifiers, this research introduces a new concept of error correcting output codes coupled with a weighted Hamming distance in the group of gamma classifiers. The ability of the proposed approach in segmentation of skin lesions and classifying them was tested using samples from the ISIC-2017 and ISIC-2016 databases. The introduced method obtained state-of-the-art accuracy on both datasets (ISIC-2016: 97.10%, ISIC-2017: 95.17%). In particularly, the accuracy of the introduced approach for both these databases is at least 1.17% higher than the compared methods. This proves the high performance of the suggested method based on the usage of the convolutional neural networks for feature extraction and gamma classifiers with error correcting output codes for classification in skin cancer detection.

Scabies is one of the most common and highest-burden skin diseases globally. Estimates suggest that >200 million people worldwide have scabies at any one time, with an annual prevalence of 455 million people, with children in impoverished and overcrowded settings being the most affected. Scabies infection is highly contagious and leads to considerable morbidity. Secondary bacterial infections are common and can cause severe health complications, including sepsis or necrotizing soft-tissue infection, renal damage and rheumatic heart disease. There is no vaccine or preventive treatment against scabies and, for the past 30 years, only few broad-spectrum antiparasitic drugs (mainly topical permethrin and oral ivermectin) have been widely available. Treatment failure is common because drugs have short half-lives and do not kill all developmental stages of the scabies parasite. At least two consecutive treatments are needed, which is difficult to achieve in resource-poor and itinerant populations. Another key issue is the lack of a practical, rapid, cheap and accurate diagnostic tool for the timely detection of scabies, which could prevent the cycle of exacerbation and disease persistence in communities. Scabies control will require a multifaceted approach, aided by improved diagnostics and surveillance, new treatments, and increased public awareness.

The Montreal Protocol has played a critical role in promoting global collective action to phase out the use of ozone-depleting substances, ultimately preventing millions of cases of skin cancer, cataracts and other health issues related to ultraviolet radiation exposure. This success entails transferable lessons for coordinated action required to improve the global governance of other challenges. Like ozone depletion, antimicrobial resistance (AMR) is a challenge of the global commons, requiring coordinated actions across human, animal and environmental sectors. We identify equity, flexibility and accountability as three core governance principles that underlie the success of the protocol and employ the 3-i framework to understand how interests, ideas and institutions contributed to the protocol's success. Equity-promoting strategies consisted of an inclusive negotiation process, supporting developing countries with multilateral funding and a progressive compliance model. Flexibility was built into the protocol through the development of country-specific strategies, reorienting incentive structures for industry and facilitating regular amendments in response to emerging scientific evidence. Accountability was promoted by mobilising public advocacy, establishing targets and enforcement mechanisms and conducting independent scientific and technical assessments. Applying our proposed principles presents an opportunity to improve the global governance of AMR. Finally, we acknowledge limitations to our analysis, including our focus on a single environmental treaty, significantly greater funding requirements and multifacetted stakeholder involvement in the case of AMR, differing market and incentives structures in antibiotic development and distribution, and ethical concerns with using trade restrictions as a policy tool.

The premise of cancer immunotherapy is that cancers are specifically visible to an immune system tolerized to healthy self. The promise of cancer immunotherapy is that immune effector mechanisms and immunological memory can jointly eradicate cancers and inoperable metastases and de facto vaccinate against recurrence. For some patients with hitherto incurable diseases, including metastatic melanoma, this promise is being realized by game-changing immunotherapies based on αβ T cells. Today's challenges are to bring benefit to greater numbers of patients of diverse ethnicities, target more cancer types, and achieve a cure while incurring fewer adverse events. In meeting those challenges, specific benefits may be offered by γδ T cells, which compose a second T cell lineage with distinct recognition capabilities and functional traits that bridge innate and adaptive immunity. γδ T cell-based clinical trials, including off-the-shelf adoptive cell therapy and agonist antibodies, are yielding promising results, although identifiable problems remain. In addressing those problems, we advocate that immunotherapies be guided by the distinctive biology of γδ T cells, as elucidated by ongoing research.

Anorectal melanoma (ARM) is a rare malignancy often associated with a poor prognosis due to its late diagnosis and aggressive biological behavior. This review aims to comprehensively investigate ARM's diagnosis, management, and treatment, emphasizing its clinical characteristics, laboratory findings, and implications for patient prognosis. A systematic literature search was conducted in PubMed, Embase, and Cochrane CENTRAL databases from inception to 1 July 2024. This review synthesizes existing literature to provide a comprehensive understanding of this rare primary malignancy. A total of 110 articles reporting on 166 patients were included. Gender data were available for 131 cases, comprising 67 females (51.1%) and 64 males (48.9%). The median age was 66 years. The overall median time to diagnosis was 4 months for anal melanoma, 3 months for rectal melanoma, and 4 months for anorectal junction melanoma. The clinical presentation was nodular in 98.2% of cases. Pre-diagnosis symptoms included bleeding in 84.9% of cases, mucous elimination (6%), pain (68.7%), tenesmus (16.9%), and changes in bowel movements (28.5%). Overall survival (OS) was reported in 82 cases, with a median OS of 11 months: 11 months for anal melanoma, 7 months for rectal melanoma, and 12 months for anorectal junction melanoma. ARM is a rare and aggressive melanoma subtype often diagnosed at an advanced stage, leading to a poor prognosis. A female predominance was observed, consistent with other mucosal melanomas. Anal melanoma exhibited better progression-free survival, and OS compared to rectal and anorectal junction melanoma.

Inborn errors of immunity (IEI) are a large heterogenous group of diseases characterized by immunodeficiency, immune dysregulation, allergy, auto-inflammation and predisposition for malignancies. Most are inherited in an autosomal recessive trait. We studied a patient with severe combined immunodeficiency (SCID) and immune dysregulation who harbored two distinct bi-allelic IEI-associated genetic mutations. Clinical, immunological and genetic data were collected. Genetic investigation included whole exome sequencing on DNA extracted from skin fibroblasts. Family segregation was performed by Sanger sequencing. Immunological evaluation included absolute and functional evaluation of lymphocytes and chimerism analysis post hematopoietic stem cell transplantation (HSCT). Treg subsets, LRBA and CTLA4 expression levels were measured by flow-cytometric analysis. A nineteen-year-old female patient from a consanguine background underwent unconditioned matched sibling related HSCT during infancy due to clinical presentation of SCID with an Omenn phenotype. At that time her underlying genetic defect was not defined. Years after HSCT, severe auto-immune phenomena were noted, including a systemic lupus erythematosus-like syndrome and ophthalmic manifestations. Genetic evaluation revealed bi-allelic homozygous mutations in RAG-2 (c.685C>T, p.Arg229Trp) and a previously undescribed mutation in LRBA (c.3325G>T, p.Asp1109Tyr). LRBA and CTLA4 expression levels were normal, suggesting that the LRBA variant identified in these kindred is unlikely to be pathogenic. Multiple genetic defects causing complex IEIs may be identified in the same individual in highly consanguineous populations. Functional immunological testing is essential for evaluation of novel genetic variants.

<b>Aim:</b> We investigated association between skin adverse events (AEs) and efficacy with dacomitinib in patients with <i>EGFR</i>-positive non-small-cell lung cancer (NSCLC).<b>Methods:</b> <i>Post hoc</i> analyses from ARCHER 1050 evaluated efficacy in patients who did and did not experience grade ≥2 skin AEs with dacomitinib. Landmark analyses were performed at 3 and 6 months.<b>Results:</b> In patients who had skin AEs (72.2%) vs. those who did not (27.7%), median progression-free survival was 16.0 vs. 9.2 months, median overall survival (OS) was 37.7 vs. 21.6 months, and objective response rate was 80.2 vs. 61.5%; OS was improved at 3 and 6 months landmark analyses.<b>Conclusion:</b> Presence of grade ≥2 skin AEs was associated with numerically improved efficacy and represents a valuable biomarker of treatment outcome with dacomitinib in patients with advanced NSCLC.<b>Clinical Trial Registration:</b> NCT01774721 (ClinicalTrials.gov).

Standard treatment for lentigo maligna (LM) is surgical excision, yet insights into the frequency of and risk factors for incomplete excisions remain limited. The primary objectives were to assess the incomplete excision rate (IER) in primary LM and to explore potential risk factors for incomplete excisions. A retrospective analysis was conducted encompassing consecutive histopathologically confirmed LMs from 2014-2020. Descriptive statistics were used for LM characteristics and IER, while uni- and multivariate analyses were used for calculating risk factors. The study included 395 LMs with an IER of 16.7% (n = 66). Risk factors for higher incomplete excision rates included: head and neck lesions (p = 0.0014), clinical excision margins < 5 mm (p = 0.040), and utilization of preoperative partial biopsies (p = 0.023). Plastic surgeons had higher IERs than dermatologists (p = 0.036). Lesion diameter (p = 0.20) and surgeon experience (p = 0.20) showed no associations with incomplete excisions, yet LMs with a diameter ≥ 20 mm exhibited higher incomplete excision rates (23.2%) compared witho those < 10 mm (12.9%). LMs should be excised with at least 5-mm clinical margins, especially in the head and neck area. LMs ≥ 20 mm may be more surgically challenging. High-er incomplete excision rates associated with the use of preoperative biopsies and/or plastic surgeons may reflect challenging anatomical locations, larger lesion diameter, and/or ill-defined borders.

Thrombotic hemangioma with organizing/anastomosing features (THOA) is a newly identified variant within the spectrum of hemangiomas that harbor mutations in the guanine nucleotide-binding protein alpha subunit (GNA) genes (like <i>GNAQ</i> or <i>GNA11</i>). While THOA shares similarities with anastomosing hemangioma, it possesses distinct clinical and morphological characteristics that make it a separate entity. All reported cases of THOA have demonstrated benign behavior. However, histologic features such as anastomosing vascular growth, mitotic figures, and endothelial hobnailing may raise concerns for a low-grade malignant vascular neoplasm. We report the case of a 74-year-old female with an unremarkable medical history who presented with a vascular lesion on her upper torso. The lesion persisted after the initial biopsy and was re-excised, displaying similar histologic characteristics. Next-generation sequencing (NGS) revealed a <i>GNAQ</i> mutation (p.Q209H) in both samples. Notably, a <i>TP53</i> mutation (p.R273H) was detected in the first specimen but was absent in the subsequent excision. The lesion was diagnosed as persistent THOA. This case report discusses the salient features, genetic profile, and prognosis of this uncommon lesion.

Constant exposure to harmful substances from both inside and outside the body can mess up the body's natural ways of keeping itself in balance. This can cause severe skin damage, including basal cell carcinoma (BCC), squamous cell carcinoma (SCC), and melanoma. However, plant-derived compounds found in fruits and vegetables have been shown to protect against skin cancer-causing free radicals and other harmful substances. It has been determined that these dietary phytochemicals are effective in preventing skin cancer and are widely available, inexpensive, and well-tolerated. Studies have shown that these phytochemicals possess anti-inflammatory, antioxidant, and antiangiogenic properties that can aid in the prevention of skin cancers. In addition, they influence crucial cellular processes such as angiogenesis and cell cycle control, which can halt the progression of skin cancer. The present paper discusses the benefits of specific dietary phytochemicals found in fruits and vegetables, as well as the signaling pathways they regulate, the molecular mechanisms involved in the prevention of skin cancer, and their drawbacks.

<b>Introduction</b> Endometrial cancer is the most common malignant tumor of the female genital organs. In Germany, treatment is provided in both cancer centers certified by the German Cancer Society (Deutsche Krebsgesellschaft, DKG) and in non-certified hospitals. This study investigated whether treatment in DKG-certified centers leads to improved overall survival of patients with endometrial cancer. <b>Materials and Methods</b> Data from 11 legally independent German statutory health insurance (SHI) funds of the AOK were analyzed as well as data from four clinical cancer registries (CCR), resulting in inclusion of 30 102 AOK patients and 8190 registry patients with a diagnosis (incidental cases) of ICD-10-GM code C54 (malignant neoplasm of corpus uteri). For comparative survival analyses, multivariable Cox regressions and Kaplan-Meier analyses were used. <b>Results</b> The Kaplan-Meier estimator for 5-year overall survival was 66.7% for patients from certified centers and 65.0% for patients from non-certified hospitals (using SHI data; CCR data: 63.4% vs. 60.7%). Cox regression adjusted for relevant confounders showed a hazard ratio (HR) of 0.93 (SHI data; 95% CI 0.86 - 1.00; p = 0.050) and 0.935 (CCR data; 95% CI 0.827 - 1.057; p = 0.281) for all-cause mortality. In a subgroup analysis (CCR), patients with International Union against Cancer Control (UICC) stage I had a significant survival benefit if treated in a certified center (HR 0.783; 95% CI 0.620 - 0.987; p = 0.038). <b>Conclusion</b> The study presented herein shows that patients with endometrial cancer treated in a certified cancer center tend to have better survival rates. This should be considered when selecting the treating hospital.

Extramammary Paget's disease (EMPD) is a rare cutaneous malignancy characterized by its uncertain etiology and metastatic potential. Surgery remains the first-line clinical treatment for EMPD, but the efficacy of radiotherapy and chemotherapy remains to be fully evaluated, and new therapies for EMPD are urgently needed. In this study, we initially screened 815 EMPD patients in the Surveillance, Epidemiology, and End Results (SEER) database and analyzed their clinical features and prognostic factors. Using the dataset from the Genome Sequence Archive (GSA) database, we subsequently conducted weighted gene coexpression network analysis (WGCNA), gene set enrichment analysis (GSEA), gene set variation analysis (GSVA), and immune infiltration analyses, grouping the samples based on EMPD disease status and the levels of ERBB2 expression. The prognostic analysis based on the SEER database identified increased age at diagnosis, distant metastasis, and receipt of radiotherapy as independent risk factors for EMPD. Moreover, our results indicated that patients who received chemotherapy had worse prognoses than those who did not, highlighting the urgent need for novel treatment approaches for EMPD. Functional analysis of the GSA-derived dataset revealed that EMPD tissues were significantly enriched in immune-related pathways compared with normal skin tissues. Compared with those with high ERBB2 expression, tissues with low ERBB2 expression displayed greater immunogenicity and enrichment of immune pathways, particularly those related to B cells. These findings suggest that patients with low ERBB2 expression are likely to benefit from immunotherapy, especially B-cell-related immunotherapy.

Melanoma is a highly malignant form of skin cancer that typically originates from abnormal melanocytes. Despite significant advances in treating metastatic melanoma with immune checkpoint blockade (ICB) therapy, a substantial number of patients do not respond to this treatment and face risks of recurrence and metastasis. This study collected data from multiple datasets, including cohorts from Riaz et al., Gide et al., MGH, and Abril-Rodriguez et al., focusing on on-treatment samples during ICB therapy. We used the single-sample gene set enrichment analysis (ssGSEA) method to calculate immunogenic cell death scores (ICDS) and employed an elastic network algorithm to construct a model predicting ICB efficacy. By analyzing 18 ICD gene signatures, we identified 9 key ICD gene signatures that effectively predict ICB treatment response for on-treatment metastatic melanoma specimens. Results showed that patients with high ICD scores had significantly higher response rates to ICB therapy compared to those with low ICD scores. ROC analysis demonstrated that the AUC values for both the training and validation sets were around 0.8, indicating good predictive performance. Additionally, survival analysis revealed that patients with high ICD scores had longer progression-free survival (PFS). This study used an elastic network algorithm to identify 9 ICD gene signatures related to the immune response in metastatic melanoma. These gene features can not only predict the efficacy of ICB therapy but also provide references for clinical decision-making. The results indicate that ICD plays an important role in metastatic melanoma immunotherapy and that expressing ICD signatures can more accurately predict ICB treatment response and prognosis for on-treatment metastatic melanoma specimens, thus providing a basis for personalized treatment.

<b>Introduction:</b> Early diagnosis of skin cancer is crucial for improving prognosis. Teledermatology (TD) usage can optimize referrals and reduce waiting times. This study aims to evaluate waiting times at the critical referral nodes in teleinterconsultations that raised suspicion of skin malignancy in the Chilean TD platform of the public health care system. <b>Materials and Methods:</b> A cross-sectional observational study that analyzed asynchronous teleinterconsultations and raised suspicion for skin malignancy following the teledermatologist evaluation was uploaded on the Chilean Ministry of Health's TD platform from January 1 to June 30, 2022. <b>Results:</b> Out of 20,522 teleinterconsultations, 1,853 raised suspicion of skin cancer. Among them, 1,119 patients were assessed by in-person examination, while 669 were still on the waiting list. Response times averaged 3.98 days for TD diagnostic suggestions. Overall referral times averaged 75.98 days from initial teleinterconsultation to the final specialist in-person evaluation. Waiting times showed significant differences among health care services and geographic regions. <b>Discussion:</b> In resource-limited settings, TD serves as a valuable tool to optimize referrals and manage the demand for oncologic dermatological consultation. The long waiting times emphasize the need for targeted interventions, especially in regions with longer delays. <b>Conclusion:</b> While TD has shown to be an effective tool in optimizing referrals, waiting times still exceed international recommendations, even in urban centers. The considerable heterogeneity in referral times within health care services and geographic regions highlights the necessity of establishing standardized referral protocols and explicit deadlines to fulfill teleinterconsultations that raise suspicion of skin malignancy in the Chilean public system.

About 100 cases of Langerhans cell histiocytosis (LCH) occur annually in Japan. It predominantly occurs in infants, presenting as multisystem disease or multifocal bone involvement. However, LCH can also occur in adults aged 20 to 40. Single-system skin involvement is rare, with most cases presenting with multisystem disease, including bone lesions, which respond to chemotherapy. In adults, lung lesions that improve with smoking cessation are well-known, although multisystem disease is more common and requires aggressive therapeutic intervention similar to that in children. In some infant cases, progression of liver, spleen, and bone marrow lesions can be difficult to control and can become severe. However, targeted molecular therapies are now available as a lifesaving option. More than 30% of cases of multisystem LCH recur at least once, often leading to long-term complications. In particular, the emergence of central diabetes insipidus, anterior pituitary dysfunction, and central nervous system neurodegenerative disorders several years after the diagnosis of LCH is a unique feature not observed in other diseases. New therapeutic strategies are needed to counter these problems.

This survey aimed to reveal the actual preventing exposure for handling of clothing and sweat of patients treated with anticancer drugs, following the publication of "Guideline for Preventing Occupational Exposure in Cancer Chemotherapy Drugs, 2019 Edition" (Guideline 2019). A survey was conducted among nurses working at 95 hematopoietic stem cell transplantation promotion base hospitals from September 1, 2023 to October 31, 2023. The response rate was 84.2% (80 facilities). Of the respondents, 45% wore gloves when touching patients' skin to administer anticancer drugs. Almost the nurses identified "urine" and "feces" as fluids on contaminated linen, while 14.1% also identified "sweat." For new staff, the results for preventing exposure education on "if touching the patients' skin" and "if handling clothing and linen" were 23.8% and 34.9%, respectively. This survey shows that nurses may not be following the Guideline 2019 for use of personal protective equipment and handling of clothes. Medical institutions handling anticancer drugs need to educate their staff for preventing occupational exposure.

Seborrheic keratosis (SK) has long been known to be an acquired benign tumour of adulthood. Nevo-blaschkoid pattern of SK presenting during infancy is rare and puts a clinician in a quandary regarding final diagnosis. This hypothesis of paediatric SK being a subtype of epidermal nevus (EN) has muddled the understanding of both disorders. There are histopathological pointers that differentiate seborrheic keratosis from SK-like histology of EN. Here, we present a child with blaschkoid SK with onset during infancy. Dermoscopic evaluation showed comedo-like openings suggestive of SK. The benefits of performing shave biopsy were twofold. Diagnostic confirmation of it being SK and not SK-type of EN and therapeutic option of their simultaneous removal ensured prompt management.

Despite the targeted- and immunotherapies used in the past decade, survival rate among patients with metastatic melanoma remains low, therefore, melanoma is responsible for the majority of skin cancer-related deaths. The ongoing investigation of natural antitumor agents, the nonpsychoactive cannabinoid, cannabigerol (CBG) found in Cannabis sativa is emerging as a promising candidate. CBG offers a potential therapeutic role in the treatment of melanoma demonstrating cell growth inhibition in some tumors. Its low water solubility and bioavailability hinder the potential effectiveness. To address these challenges, a modified CBG, namely LE-127/2 was synthesized by Mannich-type reaction. The aim was to investigate the effect of this novel compound on cell proliferation as well as the mechanism of cell death with a particular focus on autophagy and apoptosis. Human cutan melanoma cell lines, WM35, A2058 and WM3000 were utilized for the present study. Cell proliferation of the cells after the treatment with LE-127/2, parent CBG or vemurafenib was assessed by Cell Titer Blue Assay. Cells were treated with a 1.25-80 µM of the above-mentioned compounds, and it was found that at 20 μM of all drugs showed a comparable effective inhibition of cell proliferation, however, vemurafenib and CBG proved to be more effective than LE-127/2. In addition, clonogenic cell survival assays were performed to examine the inhibitory effect of LE-127/2 on the colony formation ability of melanoma cell lines. Cells treated with 20 µM of LE-127/2 for 14 days showed about a 50% suppression of clonogenic cell survival. LE-127/2 exerted the most intensive inhibition on A2058 cell colonies. Furthermore, notably, LDH cytotoxicity assay performed on HaCaT cell line, proved LE-127/2 to be cytotoxic only at higher concentration, such as 80 μM, while the parent CBG was cytotoxic at concentration as low as 5 μM, suggesting that the new CBG derivative as a drug candidate may be applied in human pharmacotherapy without causing a substantial damage in intact epidermal cells. Analysis of protein expression revealed the impact of LE-127/2 on the expression of basic proteins (LC-3, Beclin-1 and p62) involved in the process of autophagy in the three different melanoma cell lines studied. Elevated expression of these proteins was detected as a result of LE-127/2 (20 µM) treatment. LE-127/2 also induced the expression of some proteins involved in apoptosis, and it is particularly noteworthy the increased level of cleaved PARP. Based on the results obtained, it can be concluded that LE-127/2 induced autophagy could lead to the inhibition of cell proliferation and death in melanoma cells.

<i>Introduction.</i>This study aims to assess the effective lateral margin requirements for target coverage in ocular proton therapy (OPT), considering the unique challenges posed by eye motion and hypofractionation. It specifically addresses the previously unaccounted-for uncertainty contribution of intra-fractional motion, in conjunction with setup uncertainties, on dosimetric determination of lateral margin requirements.<i>Method.</i>The methodology integrates dose calculations from the in-house developed treatment planning system OCULARIS with measured intra-fractional motion, patient models from EyePlan and Monte Carlo (MC) sampling of setup uncertainties. The study is conducted on 16 uveal melanoma patients previously treated in the OPTIS2 treatment room at the Paul Scherrer Institute (PSI).<i>Result.</i>The retrospective simulation analysis highlights a significant impact of non-systematic factors on lateral margin requirements in OPT. Simulations indicate that reducing the 2.5 mm clinical lateral margin, represented by a 2.1 mm margin in this work, would have resulted in inadequate target coverage for two patients, revealing a greater impact of non-systematic factors on lateral margin requirements.<i>Conclusions.</i>This work characterizes intra-fractional motion in 16 OPT patients and identifies limitations of clinical margin selection protocols for OPT applications. A novel framework was introduced to assess margin sufficiency for target coverage. The findings suggest that prior research underestimated non-systematic factors and overestimated systematic contributions to lateral margin components. This re-evaluation highlights the critical need to prioritize the management of non-systematic uncertainty contributions in OPT.

T-bet and Eomes, both T-box transcription factors, have been extensively studied for their critical roles in the differentiation and functional maintenance of various immune cells. In this review, we provide a focused overview of their contributions to the transcriptional activation and differentiation, development, and terminal maturation of natural killer cells and innate lymphoid cell 1 cells. Furthermore, the interplay between T-bet and Eomes in regulating NK cell function, and its subsequent implications for immune responses against infections and tumors, is thoroughly examined. The review explores the ramifications of dysregulated transcription factor expression, examining its impact on homeostatic balance and its role in a spectrum of disease models. Expression variances among distinct NK cell subsets resident in different tissues are highlighted to underscore the complexity of their biological roles. Collectively, this work aims to expand the current understanding of NK cell biology, thereby paving the way for innovative approaches in the realm of NK cell-based immunotherapies.

The increasing prevalence of skin diseases necessitates accurate and efficient diagnostic tools. This research introduces a novel skin disease classification model leveraging advanced deep learning techniques. The proposed architecture combines the MobileNet-V2 backbone, Squeeze-and-Excitation (SE) blocks, Atrous Spatial Pyramid Pooling (ASPP), and a Channel Attention Mechanism. The model was trained on four diverse datasets such as PH2 dataset, Skin Cancer MNIST: HAM10000 dataset, DermNet. dataset, and Skin Cancer ISIC dataset. Data preprocessing techniques, including image resizing, and normalization, played a crucial role in optimizing model performance. In this paper, the MobileNet-V2 backbone is implemented to extract hierarchical features from the preprocessed dermoscopic images. The multi-scale contextual information is fused by the ASPP model for generating a feature map. The attention mechanisms contributed significantly, enhancing the extraction ability of inter-channel relationships and multi-scale contextual information for enhancing the discriminative power of the features. Finally, the output feature map is converted into probability distribution through the softmax function. The proposed model outperformed several baseline models, including traditional machine learning approaches, emphasizing its superiority in skin disease classification with 98.6% overall accuracy. Its competitive performance with state-of-the-art methods positions it as a valuable tool for assisting dermatologists in early classification. The study also identified limitations and suggested avenues for future research, emphasizing the model's potential for practical implementation in the field of dermatology.

Increased levels of skin detection activities are suspected of driving recent rapid increases in melanoma incidence. While ecological studies report rising rates of skin biopsies in many industrialised populations, few studies have accessed individual-level clinical data to test the hypothesis that people exposed to skin screening and surveillance go on to experience higher levels of biopsies and excisions, and higher incidence of melanoma.

Melanoma is an aggressive skin cancer notorious for high levels of drug resistance. Additionally, current treatments such as immunotherapies are often associated with numerous adverse side effects. The use of nitric oxide (NO) may represent an attractive treatment for melanoma due to NO's various anticancer properties, unlikeliness to foster resistance, and limited toxicity toward healthy tissues. The anticancer effects of chemical NO donors have been explored previously but with limited understanding of the needed characteristics for exerting optimal antimelanoma activity. Herein, the in vitro therapeutic efficacy of three macromolecular NO donor systems (i.e., cyclodextrin, mesoporous silica nanoparticles, and hyaluronic acid) with tunable NO-release kinetics was explored by evaluating skin permeation along with toxicity against melanoma and healthy skin cells. Cytotoxicity against melanoma cells was dependent on NO payload and not donor identity or NO-release kinetics. In contrast, cytotoxicity against healthy cells was primarily influenced by the macromolecular NO donor, with cyclodextrin- and hyaluronic acid-based NO donors having the highest therapeutic indices. In vitro skin permeation was influenced by both the size and charge of the NO donor, with smaller, more neutral donors resulting in greater permeation. A Pluronic F127 organogel was optimized for the delivery of a cyclodextrin-based NO donor. Delivery of the NO donor in this manner resulted in increased in vitro skin permeation and reduced tumor growth in an in vivo model.

Equine sarcoids are common non-metastasising skin tumours in horses, associated with bovine papillomavirus (BPV) infection. Six subtypes are recognised (occult, verrucose, nodular, fibroblastic, mixed and malevolent lesions), with variable clinical behaviour. The pathophysiology underlying varying tumour phenotype is poorly understood, and previous data on associations with viral load have been conflicting. To better understand this clinical variation, we investigated associations between tumour subtype and viral load, viral early protein gene expression, and expression of 10 host genes by quantitative polymerase chain reaction in 27 sarcoids and 5 normal skin samples. Viral DNA copy number did not differ between subtypes but was significantly higher in animals with fewer tumours. Expression of BPV E2 and E6 was higher in occult lesions compared to fibroblastic or nodular lesions, while E5 expression was higher in previously-treated lesions. Of the host genes, only IL6 and IL1B differed between subtypes, with higher expression in fibroblastic lesions, while IL10 and CCL5 were elevated compared to skin in all lesion types, and elevations in TNF and TGFB1 were significant for occult lesions only. Expression of TLR9, ATR, VEGFA and PTGS2 in sarcoids was not significantly different from normal skin, suggesting differences between BPV and human papillomavirus tumorigenesis. Results for BPV viral load and gene expression differed from previous reports and are insufficient to explain the spectrum of tumour phenotypes. Activation of both pro-inflammatory and anti-inflammatory immune pathways in sarcoids could influence tumour growth and effective immune responses, and the contribution of specific infiltrating immune cells requires further investigation.

Multiple exogenous or endogenous factors alter gene expression patterns by different mechanisms that are poorly understood. We used RNA-Seq analysis in order to study changes in gene expression in melanoma cells that are capable of vasculogenic mimicry that is inhibited upon the action of an inhibitor of vasculogenic mimicry. Here, we show that the drug induces a strong upregulation of 50 genes that control the cell cycle and microtubule cytoskeleton coupled with a strong downregulation of 50 genes that control different cellular metabolic processes. We found that both groups of genes are simultaneously regulated by multiple sets of transcription factors. We conclude that one way for coordinated regulation of large groups of genes is regulation simultaneously by multiple transcription factors.

Uveal melanoma (UM) is a neuroectodermal tumor that results from malignant transformation of melanocytes in the eye uvea, including the iris, the ciliary body, and the choroid. UM accounts for 5% of all melanoma cases and is extremely aggressive with half of the UM patients developing metastases within the first 1-2 years after tumor development. Molecular mechanisms of UM carcinogenesis are poorly understood, but are known to differ from those of skin melanoma. Activating mutations of the GNAQ and GNA11 genes, which code for the large G protein subunits Gq and G11, respectively, are found in 90% of UM patients. The Gaq/PKC/MAPK signaling pathway is a main signaling cascade that leads to the transformation of melanocytes of the uveal tract, and major regulators of the cascade provide targets for the development of drugs. Metastatic UM (MUM) is most often associated with mutations of BAP1, EIF1AX, GNA11, GNAQ, and SF3B1. A combination of a commercial expression test panel of 15 genes and a mutation panel of 7 genes, supplemented with data on the size of the primary tumor, is highly efficient in predicting the risk of metastasis. The risk of metastasis determines the choice of therapy and the patient follow-up regimen. However, no systemic therapy for MUM has been developed to date. New drugs undergoing clinical trials are mostly targeted drugs designed to inhibit the protein products of mutant genes or immunotherapeutic agents designed to stimulate the immune response against specific antigens. In addition to these approaches, potential therapeutic targets of epigenetic regulation of UM development are considered in the review.

Clear cell renal cell carcinoma (ccRCC) is a highly lethal cancer known for its propensity to metastasise, yet the mechanisms underlying metastasis are not well defined. Cutaneous metastases from ccRCC are uncommon and typically occur within 3 years post-nephrectomy, predominantly affecting the scalp, chest or abdomen. Here, we present a unique case of a 75-year-old male, previously treated for ccRCC with right radical nephrectomy, who developed a singular skin lesion on the left side of the neck 19 years post-nephrectomy. The lesion was confirmed as metastatic ccRCC through histopathological analysis, despite negative imaging findings. Micrometastases, characterised by microscopic tumour cell foci in distant sites, pose a significant diagnostic challenge, frequently evading detection on conventional imaging modalities like computed tomography and magnetic resonance imaging. This case contributes to our understanding of ccRCC metastasis, emphasising the necessity for continued clinical vigilance and thorough diagnostic scrutiny, particularly concerning atypical metastatic sites.

A 32-year-old male presented with diffuse plaques accompanied by multiple large, painful swellings predominantly distributed over the trunk, face and both upper and lower extremities for 11 years. There was no family history of similar complaints. The histopathological examination (HPE), supplemented with special stains confirmed the diagnosis of cutaneous leiomyoma (CL). The immunohistochemical analysis showed a strong expression of smooth muscle actin. The final diagnosis of sporadic diffuse multiple cutaneous leiomyomatosis was made. This presentation of CL is uncommon and resembled plexiform neurofibroma. The clinical diagnosis of this presentation was challenging. Therefore, HPE combined with special stains aided in confirming this surgically challenging rare tumour. In resource-poor settings regular screening is required for early detection of renal cancer and other associated complications.

Linear atrophoderma of Moulin (LAM) is an uncommon dermatological disease characterised by linear, depressed plaques typically following Blaschko's lines. LAM generally occurs in adolescence or early adulthood and is more commonly observed in females. The aetiology of LAM is still unclear. We report a rare case of LAM in an 18-year-old female presenting with an atypical Blaschkoid distribution (multiple band-like pattern) on her right trunk. A clinical examination and histopathological analysis were performed to make the diagnosis. Partial improvement was obtained with calcipotriol and colchicine. LAM is a rare condition; we were only able to identify 23 case reports in the published literature. The findings of this report contribute to the limited literature on LAM, highlighting the clinical variability of LAM and suggesting potential novel variants beyond the classic presentation, emphasising the importance of recognising diverse manifestations for accurate diagnosis and management. Early recognition of LAM is crucial for appropriate treatment and improved patient outcomes. Further research is needed to elucidate LAM's aetiology and underlying mechanisms to facilitate the development of more targeted therapeutic strategies.

Cylindromas are rare, benign adnexal neoplasms primarily found on the scalp and face, with a higher incidence in women and typically manifesting in the second or third decade of life. These tumours can present as single or multiple nodules, with the latter form often linked to CYLD gene mutations, particularly in the context of CYLD cutaneous syndrome. Here, we report a case of a 61-year-old male presenting with multiple cylindromas of the scalp, prompting genetic testing that revealed a novel pathogenic variant in the CYLD gene.

Cylindromas are rare, benign adnexal neoplasms primarily found on the scalp and face, with a higher incidence in women and typically manifesting in the second or third decade of life. These tumours can present as single or multiple nodules, with the latter form often linked to CYLD gene mutations, particularly in the context of CYLD cutaneous syndrome. Here, we report a case of a 61-year-old male presenting with multiple cylindromas of the scalp, prompting genetic testing that revealed a novel pathogenic variant in the CYLD gene.

Basal cell carcinoma (BCC) is a low-grade malignant tumor that if properly managed has an excellent prognosis. Development of BCC outside the skin areas exposed to sun rays is infrequent. Giant BCC is a rare entity, especially in unexposed areas of the body. It carries a considerable implication on patients' quality of life because of the risk of being a source of infection that may progress to severe sepsis and/or metastasis. An old female presented with a long-standing solitary lesion measuring 7.5x6 cm overlaying the lumber 4-5 vertebral region about 2.5 cm from the line of the sacral promontory. No lymph nodes or distant metastases were detected. For many years, it was misdiagnosed by other physicians as eczema, psoriasis, and fungal infection and accordingly failed to respond to treatment. A histopathological examination of lesional punch biopsy assured the diagnosis of giant superficially spreading BCC. The lesion was excised with a circumferential safety margin of about 5 mm. During the follow-up period of 4 years, no recurrence was detected. Despite being a long-standing Giant basal cell carcinoma (GBCC) in a sun-hidden skin area, the growth behaved as a locally malignant lesion without metastasizing. A wide local surgical excision of the GBCC with 5 mm safety margins was feasible, safe, and with a good aesthetic outcome. Importantly, family practitioners should avoid such missed cases through accuracy in their diagnosis and early referral of any atypical cases to a dermatologist.

Blue rubber bleb nevus syndrome (BRBNS) is a rare systemic vascular disorder characterized by multifocal venous malformations (VMs). Little is known about the perinatal management of pregnant women with BRBNS owing to the limited number of reported cases. We present the case of a 36-year-old primigravida with BRBNS who underwent an uneventful cesarean section under spinal anesthesia for breech presentation. A thorough systemic examination revealed VMs in various organs, including the skin, conjunctiva, larynx, gastrointestinal tract, lungs, and vulva. Prior to spinal anesthesia, careful examination using imaging modalities was conducted to assess the spinal and epidural involvement of the VMs to avoid complications, including accidental puncture of the VMs, associated bleeding, and epidural hematoma. In pregnant women with BBNS, it is imperative to scrutinize the localization and distribution of VMs throughout the body to anticipate potential complications and select the appropriate delivery mode and anesthetic management.

Purines and pyrimidines are signaling molecules in the tumor microenvironment that affect cancer immunity. The purinergic signaling pathways have been shown to play an important role in the development and progression of cancer. CD39 and CD73 are ectonucleotidases responsible for breaking down ATP or ADP into adenosine, which regulates immunosuppression in various types of cancer. These enzymes have been studied as a potential therapeutic target in immunotherapy, and recent research suggests a correlation between ectonucleotidases and clinical outcomes in cancer.Prostate cancer is the most diagnosed cancer in men, after non-melanoma skin tumors, and is the second leading cause of death in men in the world. Despite having long survival periods, patients often receive excessive or insufficient treatment. Within this complex landscape, the adenosine/CD73 pathway plays a crucial role. Therefore, this review aims to highlight new findings on the potential role of purinergic signaling in cancer treatment and emphasizes the importance of anti-CD73 as a pharmacological strategy for prostate cancer therapy.

A 28-year-old man underwent high-dose radioactive iodine therapy after total thyroidectomy due to papillary thyroid carcinomas. After 2 weeks, a linear reddish line was observed extending from the right corner of the mouth to the cheek, resembling the appearance of the Joker. Through a detailed interview, it was determined that the patient had developed radiation dermatitis because of radioactive saliva drooling while sleeping on one side. Although this is expected to be infrequent, educating patients on avoiding saliva contact with the skin during and after radioactive iodine therapy is crucial due to the potential skin damage and cancer risk.

Immunotherapy with anti-PD-1 antibodies significantly improved the prognosis in advanced melanoma patients, but most of them develop primary or secondary resistance to the treatment. In this study, we evaluated efficacy and safety of a chemotherapy regimen with weekly carboplatin plus paclitaxel (wCP) in patients previously treated with anti-PD-1 antibodies. We retrospectively identified 30 patients with advanced melanoma treated at our Institute over the last eight years with wCP. The co-primary endpoints of the study were overall survival (OS) and progression-free survival (PFS). In addition, we evaluated treatment tolerability. For this patient cohort, median PFS and OS were 3.25 and 7.69 months, respectively. All included patients had previously received anti-PD-1 immunotherapy, most of them had ECOG PS 0-1, and only 5 patients had a BRAF V600 mutation. In univariable analysis, we observed shorter OS in patients with > 2 involved metastatic sites, superficial spreading histology, and serum lactate dehydrogenase (LDH) values above the median. Liver metastases were associated with worse outcomes, while radiotherapy treatment of brain metastases was associated with improved OS. However, in a multivariable Cox regression model, only LDH above the median, superficial spreading histology, and female sex were significantly associated with worse OS. We reported grade 3 and 4 treatment-related toxicities in 4 and 0 patients, respectively. In conclusion, chemotherapy with wCP is a valid palliative treatment in advanced melanoma who progressed with anti-PD-1 antibodies.

Nucleotide-binding oligomerization domain 2 (NOD2) is an immune sensor crucial for eliciting the innate immune responses. Nevertheless, discrepancies exist regarding the effect of NOD2 on different types of cancer. This study aimed to investigate these function of NOD2 in melanoma and its underlying mechanisms. We have validated the tumor suppressor effect of NOD2 in melanoma. NOD2 inhibited the proliferation of melanoma cells, hindering their migration and invasion while promoting the onset of apoptosis. Our study showed that NOD2 expression is closely related to pyrimidine and folate metabolism. NOD2 inhibits thymidylate synthase (TYMS) expression by promoting K48-type ubiquitination modification of TYMS, thereby decreasing the resistance of melanoma cells to 5-fluorouracil (5-FU) and capecitabine (CAP). TYMS was identified to form a complex with Polo-like Kinase 1 (PLK1) and activate the PLK1 signaling pathway. Furthermore, we revealed that the combination of the PLK1 inhibitor volasertib (BI6727) with 5-FU or CAP had a synergistic effect repressing the proliferation, migration, and autophagy of melanoma cells. Overall, our research highlights the protective role of NOD2 in melanoma and suggests that targeting NOD2 and the TYMS/PLK1 signaling axis is a high-profile therapy that could be a prospect for melanoma treatment.

Compelling evidence has revealed a novel function of the STAT pathway in the pathophysiology of uveal melanoma (UM); however, its regulatory mechanisms remain unclear. Here, we analyzed the clinical prognostic value of STAT family genes in UM patients using bioinformatics approaches and found that high STAT6 expression is associated with poor prognosis. Furthermore, cellular experiments and a nude mouse model demonstrated that STAT6 promotes UM progression through the autophagy pathway both in vivo and in vitro. Next, RIP-PCR revealed that STAT6 protein binds to LINC01637 mRNA, which in turn regulates STAT6 expression to promote UM growth. Finally, molecular docking indicated that STAT6 is a target of Zoledronic Acid, which can delay UM tumorigenicity by inhibiting STAT6 expression. Taken together, our results indicate that the STAT6/LINC01637 axis promotes UM progression via autophagy and may serve as a potential therapeutic target for UM.

Metastatic uveal melanoma (mUM) is associated with poor prognosis. Ipilimumab/nivolumab has shown antitumor efficacy in phase II studies. Tebentafusp resulted in longer overall survival (OS) compared to investigator`s choice in a phase III study. We sought to describe the radiological response patterns of mUM patients treated with immunotherapy. Patients with mUM treated with ipilimumab/nivolumab and tebentafusp between July 2018 and December 2022, with available radiological assessment per RECISTv1.1 and/or imPERCIST5, were retrospectively identified and included. Progression-free survival (PFS) and OS rates, liver-specific response and pathological assessment in available liver biopsies were evaluated. In the ipilimumab/nivolumab group, median PFS (mPFS) was 2.9 months (95% CI 2.2-28.6) and mOS 28.9 months (95% CI 12.7-NR). Complete (CMR) and partial (PMR) metabolic response per imPERCIST5, and partial response (PR) per RECISTv1.1 were associated with longer PFS and OS by trend, compared to morphologically and metabolically stable or progressive disease. In the tebentafusp group, mPFS was 2.7 months (95% CI 2.2-3) and mOS 18.6 months (95% CI 11.5-NR). PMR and PR were associated with longer PFS by trend. In both treatments, the overall treatment response was associated with the radiological response at the liver site. In available liver tumor biopsies, differences in pathological and radiological responses were noted. ImPERCIST5 and RECIST v1.1 are valuable tools in the radiological response assessment, but both methods display limitations. Accurate biomarkers to stratify patients at risk for disease progression and future translational studies to investigate mechanisms of response and resistance are required.

Vaccinations are an important pillar of public health. They have high benefits for individuals and society as a whole by specifically preventing or mitigating infectious diseases. In many cases, they offer benefits that go beyond protection against the disease in question, e.g., protective cardiovascular effects. Vaccination recommendations in Germany are drawn up by the Standing Committee on Vaccination (STIKO), while the European Medicines Agency (EMA) is responsible for the approval of vaccines in the EU. Vaccinations may be carried out by physicians regardless of their specialty. In dermatology, vaccinations against varicella (chickenpox), herpes zoster, and human papillomavirus are established. The development of vaccines against other dermatologically relevant diseases and cancer vaccines is the subject of intensive research. Particularly in the case of immunosuppression, the physician must also take into consideration which vaccinations are possible and useful or contraindicated. Type I or type IV allergies to components of vaccinations are very rare, but reactions at the injection site often occur as a dermatological side effect. Urticarial reactions are also possible, as does the worsening of underlying dermatological conditions such as psoriasis vulgaris.

Teledermatology utilises telecommunications technology to deliver dermatological care remotely, incorporating live video consultations, store-and-forward systems, and hybrid approaches. It is particularly valuable in underserved or remote areas with limited access to dermatologists. Reported benefits include reduced face-to-face consultations for benign lesions, leading to increased capacity for severe cases, improved access for rural patients, and enhanced satisfaction among clinicians and patients. The COVID-19 pandemic accelerated the adoption of teledermatology, integrating it into the National Health Service (NHS) framework for managing referrals and ensuring continuity of care. This study examines the outcomes of two-week wait referrals for suspected skin cancer, focusing on diagnostic concordance between teledermatology and histopathology.

Complex coacervates play essential roles in various biological processes and applications. Although substantial progress has been made in understanding the molecular interactions driving complex coacervation, the mechanisms stabilizing coacervates against coalescence remain experimentally challenging and not fully elucidated. We recently showed that polydiallyldimethylammonium chloride (PDDA) and adenosine triphosphate (ATP) coacervates stabilize upon their transfer to deionized (DI) water. Here, we perform molecular dynamics simulations of PDDA-ATP coacervates in supernatant and DI water, to understand the ion dynamics and structure within stable coacervates. We found that transferring the coacervates to DI water results in an immediate ejection of a significant fraction of small ions (Na<sup>+</sup> and Cl<sup>-</sup>) from the surface of the coacervates to DI water. We also observed a notable reduction in the mobility of these counterions in coacervates when in DI water, both in the cluster-forming and slab simulations, together with a lowered displacement of PDDA and ATP. These results suggest that the initial ejection of the ions from the coacervates in DI water may induce an interfacial skin layer formation, inhibiting further mobility of ions in the skin layer.

Uveal melanoma (UM), the primary intraocular tumor in adults, arises from eye melanocytes and poses a significant threat to vision and health. Despite its rarity, UM is concerning due to its high potential for liver metastasis, resulting in a median survival of about a year after detection. Unlike cutaneous melanoma, UM responds poorly to immune checkpoint inhibition (ICI) due to its low tumor mutational burden and PD-1/PD-L1 expression. Tebentafusp, a bispecific T cell engager (TCE) approved for metastatic UM, showed potential in clinical trials, but the objective response rate remains modest. To enhance TCE efficacy, we explored quantitative systems pharmacology (QSP) modeling in this study. By integrating a TCE module into an existing QSP model and using clinical data on UM and tebentafusp, we aimed to identify and rank potential predictive biomarkers for patient selection. We selected 30 important predictive biomarkers, including model parameters and cell concentrations in tumor and blood compartments. We investigated biomarkers using different methods, including comparison of median levels in responders and non-responders, and a cutoff-based biomarker testing algorithm. CD8+ T cell density in the tumor and blood, CD8+ T cell to regulatory T cell ratio in the tumor, and naïve CD4+ density in the blood are examples of key biomarkers identified. Quantification of predictive power suggested a limited predictive power for single pre-treatment biomarkers, which was improved by early on-treatment biomarkers and combination of predictive biomarkers. Ultimately, this QSP model could facilitate biomarker-guided patient selection, improving clinical trial efficiency and UM treatment outcomes.

A woman in her 50s presented to the hospital with new-onset jaundice and ascites. Her medical history included a melanoma of the right shoulder, diagnosed 8 months before, for which she had received four cycles of ipilimumab and nivolumab. Due to the oncological history and previous immunotherapy, an immune-checkpoint-inhibitor (ICI)-induced hepatitis was suspected, and a high-dose corticosteroid treatment was initiated. However, as there was no improvement in the liver function tests, a percutaneous liver biopsy was performed for further diagnostic clarification. Histological analysis ultimately identified a hepatic sinusoidal obstruction syndrome (SOS) as the underlying cause of liver dysfunction and portal hypertension. ICI-related hepatic SOS represents an extremely rare adverse event related to immunotherapy that should be considered in all patients with treatment-refractory ICI-related hepatotoxicity and clinical signs of portal hypertension.

A woman in her 50s presented to the hospital with new-onset jaundice and ascites. Her medical history included a melanoma of the right shoulder, diagnosed 8 months before, for which she had received four cycles of ipilimumab and nivolumab. Due to the oncological history and previous immunotherapy, an immune-checkpoint-inhibitor (ICI)-induced hepatitis was suspected, and a high-dose corticosteroid treatment was initiated. However, as there was no improvement in the liver function tests, a percutaneous liver biopsy was performed for further diagnostic clarification. Histological analysis ultimately identified a hepatic sinusoidal obstruction syndrome (SOS) as the underlying cause of liver dysfunction and portal hypertension. ICI-related hepatic SOS represents an extremely rare adverse event related to immunotherapy that should be considered in all patients with treatment-refractory ICI-related hepatotoxicity and clinical signs of portal hypertension.

Socioeconomic factors influence the survival of patients with early stage melanoma and thus should be accounted for in prognostication tools.

Regular application of over-the-counter (OTC) sunscreen is considered the foundation of skin cancer prevention, yet OTC sunscreen is not eligible for reimbursement in almost all state Medicaid benefit plans. On review of 111 Medicaid preferred drug lists (PDLs) across 50 states and the District of Columbia (DC), only five plans were identified that incorporate coverage of sunscreen. Thus, many recipients of Medicaid, the majority of whom are individuals and families of lower socioeconomic status, may encounter financial difficulty and thus forego utilizing sun protective measures due to financial constraints. Here, we compare current Medicaid coverage of OTC sunscreen and discuss calculated and theoretical annual costs of this skin cancer prevention method.

<b>Aims/Background</b> The increasing adoption of inhibitors of programmed cell death-1 (PD-1) and its ligand, programmed death-ligand 1 (PD-L1), in the treatment of multiple cancer types in China has started to garner broader attention due to the occurrence of immune-related adverse events (irAEs), especially life-threatening skin reactions such as Steven-Johnson syndrome/toxic epidermal necrolysis (SJS/TEN). Isolated case reports have described SJS/TEN associated with PD-1/PD-L1 inhibitors usage. In this paper, we presented a series of cases of SJS/TEN following the use of PD-1/PD-L1 inhibitors in a dermatology hospital located in Zhejiang Province of China in the past several years, summarizing characteristics of these cases and providing a reference of management. <b>Methods</b> We retrospectively reviewed all the medical records of inpatients diagnosed with SJS/TEN in the Hangzhou Third People's Hospital from 2012 to 2024. We analyzed and compared the situation of SJS/TEN onset, types of PD-1/PD-L1 inhibitors used, score of severity, laboratory findings, and essential therapies of the patients who had received PD-1/PD-L1. <b>Results</b> We identified 12 SJS/TEN patients who had been treated with PD1/PD-L1 inhibitors: sintilimab had been used in six patients; tislelizumab in two cases; toripalimab, keytruda and cadonilimab each in one case; and an unknown prescription in one case. The longest duration between the first PD-1/PD-L1 inhibitor dose and the SJS/TEN diagnosis recorded was nine months whereas the shortest was 11 days. Half of the selected patients received chemotherapy at the same time. More than two types of therapies were applied to the cases, except for two cases with mild SJS. <b>Conclusion</b> This study unveils a potential, under-recognized cause of SJS/TEN in the cancer patients after analyzing the cases of SJS/TEN in cancer patients with prior exposure to PD-1/PD-L1 inhibitors. This paper also provides clue about the prominent features of SJS/TEN aforesaid, offering insights on the effective management measures for optimizing clinical safety.

Neutrophilic dermatosis of the dorsal hands (NDDH) is a rare, challenging condition characterized by its acute febrile onset, neutrophilic dermal infiltrate seen on histology, and frequent association with hematologic disorders. This case report presents a longitudinal follow-up of NDDH in an 80-year-old male with significant comorbid conditions, including atrial fibrillation, chronic systolic heart failure, venous insufficiency, and gastroesophageal reflux disease. Over six clinic visits, we document the patient's clinical progression, highlighting key changes in presentation, diagnostic findings, and the multifaceted approach to management, including the use of systemic and topical therapies. Notably, the treatment strategy was adapted in response to diagnostic tests revealing methicillin-resistant <i>Staphylococcus aureus</i> (MRSA) and Group B <i>Streptococcus</i> (GBS), complicating the patient's condition. Despite the challenges posed by the patient's comorbidities, which limited the use of certain medications, the patient showed significant improvement with a treatment approach primarily involving topical and systemic steroids. The observed improvement emphasizes the effectiveness of modifying therapy based on lesion regression and the patient's overall condition. This case underscores the critical need for accurate diagnosis, the complexities of managing NDDH in patients with multiple health conditions, and the value of adaptability in treatment plans. Through this detailed longitudinal case study, we contribute insights into the progression and management of NDDH, emphasizing the need for ongoing research and a flexible approach to treatment.

There is no clinical tool available to primary care physicians or dermatologists that could provide objective identification of suspicious skin cancer lesions. Multispectral autofluorescence lifetime imaging (maFLIM) dermoscopy enables label-free biochemical and metabolic imaging of skin lesions. This study investigated the use of pixel-level maFLIM dermoscopy features for objective discrimination of malignant from visually similar benign pigmented skin lesions. Clinical maFLIM dermoscopy images were acquired from 60 pigmented skin lesions before undergoing a biopsy examination. Random forest and deep neural networks classification models were explored, as they do not require explicit feature selection. Feature pools with either spectral intensity or bi-exponential maFLIM features, and a combined feature pool, were independently evaluated with each classification model. A rigorous cross-validation strategy tailored for small-size datasets was adopted to estimate classification performance. Time-resolved bi-exponential autofluorescence features were found to be critical for accurate detection of malignant pigmented skin lesions. The deep neural network model produced the best lesion-level classification, with sensitivity and specificity of 76.84%±12.49% and 78.29%±5.50%, respectively, while the random forest classifier produced sensitivity and specificity of 74.73%±14.66% and 76.83%±9.58%, respectively. Results from this study indicate that machine-learning driven maFLIM dermoscopy has the potential to assist doctors with identifying patients in real need of biopsy examination, thus facilitating early detection while reducing the rate of unnecessary biopsies.

The term dermatoglyphics was first used in 1926 by anatomist Cummins. Dermatoglyphic is a term that refers to "a skin carving." The unique carve present on the skin surface of humans and other living beings is referred to as dermatoglyphics. This research was conducted to understand the variations in patterns and assess the usefulness of dermatoglyphics among individuals diagnosed with potentially malignant diseases and mouth cancer. Three hundred subjects were selected. The study consisted of three groups. Patients were divided into the following groups: Group I: oral submucous fibrosis (OSMF) (100), Group II: ORAL LEUKOPLAKIA (100), and Group III: Healthy Individuals (100). Our research study indicates a difference in dermatoglyphic patterns between patients and healthy individuals. Specifically, there is a lower percentage of loop patterns and an increase in arch patterns in OSMF and leukoplakia patients. These findings suggest that dermatoglyphics may have relevance in understanding or identifying certain health conditions.

<b>Background</b>  Impact of previous radiation therapy and neoadjuvant chemotherapy (NACT) on early complications in direct-to-implant (DTI) breast reconstruction has not been elucidated. This study investigated whether DTI reconstruction is viable in patients with NACT or a history of preoperative chest wall irradiation. <b>Methods</b>  Medical records of breast cancer patients who underwent nipple-sparing or skin-sparing mastectomy with DTI breast reconstruction from March 2018 to February 2021, with at least 1 year of follow-up in a single tertiary center, were reviewed. Demographic data, intraoperative details, and postoperative complications, including full-thickness necrosis, infection, and removal, were reviewed. Risk factors suggested by previous literature, including NACT and preoperative chest wall irradiation histories, were reviewed by multivariate analysis. <b>Results</b>  A total of 206 breast cancer patients were included, of which, 9 were bilateral, 8 patients (3.9%) had a history of prior chest wall irradiation, and 17 (8.6%) received NACT. From 215 cases, 11 cases (5.1%) required surgical intervention for full-thickness necrosis, while intravenous antibiotics or hospitalization was needed in 11 cases (5.1%), with 14 cases of failure (6.5%) reported. Using multivariable analysis, preoperative irradiation was found to significantly increase the risk of full-thickness skin necrosis (OR = 12.14, <i>p</i>  = 0.034), and reconstruction failure (OR = 13.14, <i>p</i>  = 0.005). NACT was not a significant risk factor in any of the above complications. <b>Conclusion</b>  DTI breast reconstruction is a viable option for patients who have received NACT, although reconstructive options should be carefully explored for patients with a history of breast irradiation.

<b>Background</b>  Basal cell carcinoma (BCC) is the most common type of nonmelanoma skin cancer. Typically, resection requires a safety margin of ≥4 mm. When removing tumor cells, achieving complete excision with minimal safety margins and reconstructing the defect to preserve the original appearance are important. In this study, we used a 3-mm resection margin to confirm recurrence and re-resection rates. <b>Methods</b>  Electronic medical records and photographic data were obtained for patients with primary BCC lesions less than 2 cm in diameter who underwent wide excision with a 3-mm surgical margin from January 2015 to November 2021. We analyzed factors determining recurrence and re-resection rates, such as tumor size, location, age, sex, underlying diseases (including immunosuppression state), ethnicity, subtypes, tumor borders, etc. <b>Results</b>  This study included 205 patients. The mean age and follow-up period were 73.0 ± 11.5 years and 10.2 ± 8.0 months, respectively. The recurrence and re-resection rates were 1.95% and 25.85%, respectively. A statistically significant correlation was found between recurrence rate and tumor border ( <i>p</i>  = 0.013) and the re-resection rate was correlated statistically with location ( <i>p</i>  = 0.022) and immunosuppressed patients ( <i>p</i>  = 0.006). <b>Conclusion</b>  We found that a 3-mm excision margin provided sufficient safety in small facial BCC, resulting in ease of surgery and better aesthetic outcomes. However, surgical margins must be determined case by case by integrating various patient factors. In particular, a surgical margin of ≥4 mm is required for BCC in high-risk areas, immunosuppressed patients, or poorly defined border.

Extranodal Natural Killer/T Cell Lymphoma Nasal Type (EN-NK/T-CL-NT) is a rare type of non-Hodgkin lymphoma in which the lesion is usually located in the upper respiratory tract, such as nasal cavity, palate, and nasopharynx. In addition, the primary lesion of EN-NK/T-CL-NT can rarely originate in extranasal sites such as the skin, gastrointestinal tract, testicles, central nervous system, and lungs. We describe an 82-year-old male smoker was brought to the hospital with 8 months of fever, cough, sputum production, chest pain, and chest tightness. Computed tomography (CT) of the chest showed subpleural high-density shadow in the lower lobe of the right lung with unclear borders and surrounding patchy ground-glass shadow. Initially, the patient's right lower lobe lesion progressed after receiving anti-inflammatory treatment. He subsequently underwent two computerized tomography (CT)-guided percutaneous transthoracic needle aspiration biopsies and a bronchoscopy, but no tumor cells were found. Through multidisciplinary team discussions, the patient was then transferred to the department of cardiothoracic surgery for right lower lobectomy. Finally, extranodal natural killer/T-cell lymphoma (ENKTCL), nasal type, was confirmed by pathology of the surgical specimen. The diagnosis of primary pulmonary ENKTCL was made because no evidence other than extrapulmonary site was found at the time of diagnosis and treatment. Here we report a case of primary pulmonary extranodal natural killer/T-cell lymphoma of nasal type presenting as pneumonia in the right lower lobe and enhance the understanding of the disease.

Pathological scarring results from aberrant cutaneous wound healing due to the overactivation of biological behaviors of human skin fibroblasts, characterized by local inordinate inflammation, excessive extracellular matrix and collagen deposition. Yet, its underlying pathogenesis opinions vary, which could be caused by increased local mechanical tension, enhanced and continuous inflammation, gene mutation, as well as cellular metabolic disorder, etc. Metabolic reprogramming is the process by which the metabolic pattern of cells undergoes a systematic adjustment and transformation to adapt to the changes of the external environment and meet the needs of their growth and differentiation. Therefore, the abnormality of metabolic reprogramming in cells within wounds and scars attaches great importance to scar formation. Mesenchymal stem cells-derived exosomes (MSC-Exo) are the extracellular vesicles that play an important role in tissue repair, cancer treatment as well as immune and metabolic regulation. However, there is not a systematic work to detail the relevant studies. Herein, we gave a comprehensive summary of the existing research on three main metabolisms, including glycometabolism, lipid metabolism and amino acid metabolism, and MSC-Exo regulating metabolic reprogramming in wound healing and scar formation for further research reference.

Male breast cancer is an uncommon condition, accounting for less than 1% of all breast carcinomas and under 1.5% of all malignant tumors in men. Skin lesions can often be the initial reason for consultation. At this advanced stage, diagnosis is typically delayed, leading to a poor prognosis. Herein, we report the case of a 66-year-old man who presented with a dermo-epidermal axillary mass, indicative of cutaneous metastasis from an invasive ductal carcinoma.

Carcinogen-induced mutations are thought near-random, with rare cancer-driver mutations underlying clonal expansion. Using high-fidelity Duplex Sequencing to reach a mutation frequency sensitivity of 4×10 <sup>-9</sup> per nt, we report that sun exposure creates pervasive mutations at sites with ∼100-fold UV-sensitivity in RNA-processing gene promoters - cyclobutane pyrimidine dimer (CPD) hyperhotspots - and these mutations have a mini-driver clonal expansion phenotype. Numerically, human skin harbored 10-fold more genuine mutations than previously reported, with neonatal skin containing 90,000 per cell; UV signature mutations increased 8,000-fold in sun-exposed skin, averaging 3×10 <sup>-5</sup> per nt. Clonal expansion by neutral drift or passenger formation was nil. Tumor suppressor gene hotspots reached variant allele frequency 0.1-10% via 30-3,000 fold clonal expansion, in occasional biopsies. CPD hyperhotspots reached those frequencies in every biopsy, with modest clonal expansion. In vitro, tumor hotspot mutations arose occasionally over weeks of chronic low-dose exposure, whereas CPD hyperhotspot mutations arose in days at 1000-fold higher frequencies, growing exponentially. UV targeted mini-drivers in every skin cell.

Squamous cell carcinoma (SCC) is a common skin cancer, often caused by exposure to ultraviolet radiation (UVR). Recent studies have shown that changes in DNA methylation play a crucial role in the development of cancers. However, methylation patterns of SCC are not well characterised. Identifying biomarkers for the risk of developing SCC could be helpful for early detection and diagnosis and can potentially improve treatment and prevention strategies. This study aimed to investigate methylation changes in the epidermis of mice exposed to UVR for 24 weeks. We examined the DNA methylation levels of 260 199 CpGs using the Illumina Infinium Mouse Methylation BeadChip and studied the epidermis of UVR-exposed and unexposed mice every 4 weeks for 24 weeks (n = 39). We identified CpGs with large differences in methylation levels (β-values) between UVR-exposed and unexposed mice. We also observed differences in the epigenetic age of these mice. We identified CpGs in Rev, Ipmk, Rad51b, Fgfr2, Fgfr3 and Ctnnb1 that may serve as potential biomarkers for SCC risk and could be helpful for the early detection and prevention of SCC. Further investigations are necessary to determine the biological functions and clinical significance of these CpGs.

<b>Aim:</b> The study aimed to explore the incidence of cancer as an adverse event to SGLT2 inhibitors (SGLT2i) use in Type 2 diabetes.<b>Materials & methods:</b> The study followed PRISMA guidelines to pool RCTs conforming the inclusion criteria. Random effects model was used to pool risk ratios.<b>Results & conclusion:</b> After reviewing 19 studies, the analysis suggested a possible increased risk of reproductive, breast, thyroid, hematologic/lymphatic, urinary, skin and skeletal cancers with SGLT2i use. Conversely, lower incidences of respiratory and cardiovascular cancers were noted. However, these associations lacked statistical significance. Caution is advised in using SGLT2i due to potential cancer risks, especially in diabetic patients prone to cancer. More RCTs are essential due to limited research in this area.

Mitochondrial dysfunction is a hallmark of cancer cachexia (CC). Mitochondrial reactive oxygen species (ROS) are elevated in muscle shortly after tumor onset. Targeting mitochondrial ROS may be a viable option to prevent CC. The aim of this study was to evaluate the efficacy of a mitochondria-targeted antioxidant, SkQ1, to mitigate CC in both biological sexes. Male and female Balb/c mice were injected bilaterally with colon 26 adenocarcinoma (C26) cells (total 1 × 10<sup>6</sup> cells) or PBS (equal volume control). SkQ1 was dissolved in drinking water (∼250 nmol/kg body wt/day) and administered to mice beginning 7 days following tumor induction, whereas control groups consumed normal drinking water. In vivo muscle contractility of dorsiflexors, deuterium oxide-based protein synthesis, mitochondrial respiration and mRNA content of mitochondrial, protein turnover, and calcium channel-related markers were assessed at endpoint (25 days following tumor induction). Two-way ANOVAs, followed by Tukey's post hoc test when interactions were significant (<i>P</i> ≤ 0.05), were performed. SkQ1 attenuated cancer-induced atrophy, promoted protein synthesis, and abated <i>Redd1</i> and <i>Atrogin</i> induction in gastrocnemius of C26 male mice. In female mice, SkQ1 decreased muscle mass and increased catabolic signaling in the plantaris of tumor-bearing mice, as well as reduced mitochondrial oxygen consumption, regardless of tumor. However, in females, SkQ1 enhanced muscle contractility of the dorsiflexors with concurrent induction of <i>Ryr1</i>, <i>Serca1</i>, and <i>Serca2a</i> in TA. In conclusion, the mitochondria-targeted antioxidant SkQ1 may attenuate CC-induced muscle loss in males, while improving muscle contractile function in tumor-bearing female mice, suggesting sexual dimorphism in the effects of this mitochondrial therapy in CC.<b>NEW & NOTEWORTHY</b> Herein, we assess the efficacy of the mitochondria-targeted antioxidant SkQ1 to mitigate cancer cachexia (CC) in both biological sexes. We demonstrate that SkQ1 administration attenuates muscle wasting induced by C26 tumors in male, but not female, mice. Conversely, we identify that in females, SkQ1 improves muscle contractility. These phenotypic adaptations to SkQ1 are aligned with respective responses in muscle protein synthesis, mitochondrial respiration, and mRNA content of protein turnover, as well as mitochondrial and calcium handling-related markers.

Merkel cell carcinoma (MCC) is a rare, aggressive skin cancer with a tripled incidence in the US and Europe over the past decade. Around 80% of MCC is linked to Merkel cell polyomavirus, but the cell of origin remains unknown. We stably introduced Merkel cell polyomavirus (MCPyV)-sT) and LT antigens to MCC13 and REH cell lines, analyzing DNA methylation and gene transcriptional regulation. Gene ontology analysis assessed MCPyV effects, and integrative analysis correlated gene expression and methylation. Expression patterns were compared with 15 previously sequenced primary MCCs. We found that MCPyV-LT induces DNA methylation changes in both cell lines, while MCPyV-sT only affected REH cells. Greater gene expression changes are observed in MCC13 cells, with upregulated genes associated with cellular components and downregulated genes related to biological processes. Integrative analysis of differentially expressed genes (DEG) and differentially methylated regions (DMR) of REH cell lines revealed that no genes were commonly methylated and differentially expressed. The study compared DEGs and DMG in MCC13 and REH cells to overlapping genes in MCPyV-positive cell lines (MKL1, MKL2, and WaGa), identifying hypomethylated genes in the gene body and hypermethylated genes at TSS1500. GO analysis of the two cell lines showed that MCPyV-TAs can downregulate genes in MHC-I pathways; this downregulation offers a target that can be used to create novel and efficient MCC immunotherapy approaches. Finally, it was confirmed that MCPyV-LT controls gene expression in MCC tissues using an integrative investigation of DNA methylation and gene expression.

Interleukin 31 (IL-31) is a proinflammatory cytokine, mainly secreted by Type II helper T cells. It signals through a heterodimeric receptor complex composed of IL-31 receptor α and oncostatin-M receptor β chain. The hallmark feature of IL-31, in its pathological role, is its ability to induce pruritus in mammals. Pruritus is a common symptom and major reason of morbidity in cancer patients, compromising their quality of life. Although, IL-31 is differentially expressed in different tumor types and could promote or inhibit cancer progression, high expression of IL-31 is a contributing factor to advanced stage tumor and severity of pruritus. The simultaneous existence of pruritus and cancer could either result from the aberrations in common proteins that co-exist in both cancer and pruritus or the therapeutic treatment of cancer could indirectly induce pruritus. Although the biology of IL-31 has predominantly been described in skin diseases such as atopic dermatitis and other inflammatory diseases, the precise role of IL-31 in the tumor biology of different cancer types remains elusive. Herein, we summarize the current understanding on the role of this cytokine in the pathogenesis of different cancers.

Aromatase inhibitors are effective in treating hormone receptor-positive breast cancer, particularly in postmenopausal women. However, the challenges of inconsistent dissolution, variable absorption and side effects with oral administration persist. To address these issues, transdermal delivery has emerged as a viable alternative. In our study, we have developed nanoemulsion-based transdermal creams containing third-generation aromatase inhibitors Exemestane (EXE) or Letrozole (LE) and evaluated their toxicity, anti-tumour effects and androgenic potency using preclinical models including Bama minipigs, DMBA-induced breast cancer rats and orchidectomized male rats. The results of our study are significant, suggesting that both creams effectively penetrated the skin, demonstrating an impressive anti-breast cancer effect. Importantly, EXE cream had no organ toxicity at the tested dose, providing a reassuring safety profile for its use. In contrast, LE cream displayed reversible toxicity from drug molecule itself in animals at the given dose, dissipating after 3 weeks of withdrawal and recovery. This study establishes a solid foundation for the safe clinical use of third-generation aromatase inhibitors. It highlights transdermal creams as a promising drug delivery carrier for administering them.

Chemotherapy including platinum-based drugs are a possible strategy to enhance the immune response in advanced melanoma patients who are resistant to immune checkpoint blockade (ICB) therapy. However, the immune-boosting effects of these drugs are a subject of controversy, and their impact on the tumor microenvironment are poorly understood. In this study, we discovered that lipid peroxidation (LPO) promotes the formation of lipid rafts in the membrane, which mediated by Acyl-CoA Synthetase Long Chain Family Member 4 (ACSL4) impairs the sensitivity of melanoma cells to platinum-based drugs. This reduction primarily occurs through the inhibition of immunogenic ferroptosis and pyroptosis by reducing cell membrane pore formation. By disrupting ACSL4-mediaged lipid rafts via the removal of membrane cholesterol, we promoted immunogenic cell death, transformed the immunosuppressive environment, and improved the antitumor effectiveness of platinum-based drugs and immune response. This disruption also helped reverse the decrease in CD8<sup>+</sup> T cells while maintaining their ability to secrete cytokines. Our results reveal that ACSL4-dependent LPO is a key regulator of lipid rafts formation and antitumor immunity, and that disrupting lipid rafts has the potential to enhance platinum-based drug-induced immunogenic ferroptosis and pyroptosis in melanoma. This novel strategy may augment the antitumor immunity of platinum-based therapy and further complement ICB therapy.

Spina bifida is a congenital malformation of foetal neural structures which may present as a skin fold or sac containing cerebrospinal fluid and neural structures with a variety of neurological deficits. Surgical repairs of spina bifida may not ensure complete functions, neural improvement or recovery. We present this palliative report of an adult male in his early 40s with a medical history of meningocele repair in his infancy, with long-standing Marjolin ulcers, fractures, contractures, diverting ileostomy and urostomy and a fungating mass externally measuring 33×25 cm. The mass involved the buttocks, perineum and scrotum with a tumour overlying the meningocele and extending into the thigh through an internally draining tract. Factors such as immobility, pressure injuries and poor social support in the setting of chronic disability led to a conservative approach in the management of this unresectable carcinoma.

Ultraviolet (UV) B-induced damage in human epidermal keratinocytes (HEKs) initiates photocarcinogenesis. However, how diabetes influences photocarcinogenesis is not well understood. To investigate the impact of high-glucose environments on responses to UVB, we cultured HEKs in normal-glucose (NG) or high-glucose (HG) conditions (G6 and G26), followed by UVB irradiation at 25 mJ/cm<sup>2</sup> (G6UVB and G26UVB). We performed next-generation sequencing and analyzed HEKs' expression profiles bioinformatically to identify candidate genes and cellular responses involved. We found UVB induced consistent responses in both NG- and HG-cultivated HEKs, but it also triggered certain distinct processes and pathways specifically in the HG groups. The 459 differentially expressed (DE) genes in the HG groups revealed their roles in chromatin remodeling, nucleosome assembly, and interferon signaling activation. Moreover, the 29 DE genes identified in G26UVB/G6UVB comparison, including the potent tumor suppressor gene TFPI2, were considered key genes contributing to HEKs' altered response to UVB in HG environments. UVB irradiation induced significantly higher TFPI2 expression in HG-cultivated HEKs than their NG-cultivated counterpart. Finally, HG-cultivation significantly increased oxidative stress, cyclobutane pyrimidine dimer formation, and apoptosis, while reducing HEKs' viability after UVB irradiation. These changes under HG conditions probably mediate cell fate toward death and tumor regression. Overall, our findings provide evidence and associated molecular basis on how HG conditions reduce keratinocytes' photocarcinogenic potential following UVB exposure.

Many benign and malignant breast entities can present with diffuse unilateral magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) findings. The unilateral breast findings can be broken down into three broad categories including asymmetric diffuse masses/non-mass enhancement (NME), diffuse unilateral skin thickening, and diffuse asymmetric background enhancement. Although correlation with clinical history is always necessary, biopsy is often needed to make a definitive diagnosis. There are some findings on MRI which can help narrow the differential including morphology, distribution, T2W signal, enhancement kinetics, and associated skin thickening. Malignant entities which will be discussed in this review include ductal carcinoma in situ, invasive ductal carcinoma, invasive lobular carcinoma, Paget disease, inflammatory breast cancer, and locally advanced breast cancer. Benign entities which will be discussed in this review include idiopathic granulomatous mastitis (IGM), infectious mastitis, pseudoangiomatous stromal hyperplasia, giant fibroadenoma, early and late radiation changes, unilateral breast feeding, and central venous obstruction, all which have varied MRI appearances. It is important for radiologists to be familiar with the common entities that can present with diffuse asymmetric unilateral MRI breast findings to ensure the correct diagnosis and management is undertaken.

The complexity of lip anatomy and the roles played by the lip make the reconstruction of lip defects more challenging. Adequate reconstruction of lip defects requires adaptation of mucosa, vermilion, and skin features in lip as well as its specific function.

Disulfidptosis, the newest form of programmed cell death, is closely associated with the immune microenvironment of cancer cells. Long non-coding RNA (lncRNA) has also been found to play a crucial role in melanoma. However, the role of disulfidptosis-related lncRNA in melanoma remains unclear. Through bioinformatic analysis of the transcriptional, clinical, and pathological data from the TCGA-SKCM (The Cancer Genome Atlas-Skin cutaneous melanoma) database, we established a 2-Disulfidptosis-related lncRNA (DRL) prognostic model and a novel molecular subtype for melanoma. The survival and ROC curves of the 2-DRL prognostic model demonstrated its strong efficacy in predicting the prognosis of melanoma. The high-risk group of melanoma exhibited a significant decrease in ESTIMATEScore, ImmuneScore, and StromalScore, indicative of pronounced immune suppression and exhaustion. Subgroup C2 of melanoma displayed an immune-activated state, while subgroups C1 and C3 showed immune suppression and exhaustion, potentially leading to poorer prognosis. Subgroup C1 demonstrated better sensitivity to Zoledronate, UMI-77, Nilotinib, and Cytarabine. Subgroup C2 exhibited greater sensitivity to Ribociclib, XAV939, Topotecan, and Ruxolitinib. Subgroup C3 showed higher sensitivity to VX-11e, Ulixertinib, Trametinib, and Afatinib. This study revealed the immune microenvironment status and targeted drug sensitivity in melanoma patients with different risk scores and molecular subtypes, offering valuable guidance for clinical treatment and identifying significant DRL targets for future in-depth research.

The tumor microenvironment (TME) and the cellular interactions within it can be critical to tumor progression and treatment response. Although technologies to generate multiplex images of the TME are advancing, the many ways in which TME imaging data can be mined to elucidate cellular interactions are only beginning to be realized. Here, we present a novel approach for multipronged computational immune synapse analysis (CISA) that reveals T-cell synaptic interactions from multiplex images. CISA enables automated discovery and quantification of immune synapse interactions based on the localization of proteins on cell membranes. We first demonstrate the ability of CISA to detect T-cell:APC (antigen presenting cell) synaptic interactions in two independent human melanoma imaging mass cytometry (IMC) tissue microarray datasets. We then verify CISA's applicability across data modalities with melanoma histocytometry whole slide images, revealing that T-cell:macrophage synapse formation correlates with T-cell proliferation. We next show the generality of CISA by extending it to breast cancer IMC images, finding that CISA quantifications of T-cell:B-cell synapses are predictive of improved patient survival. Our work demonstrates the biological and clinical significance of spatially resolving cell-cell synaptic interactions in the TME and provides a robust method to do so across imaging modalities and cancer types.

This study investigates the predictive role of indocyanine green angiography and thermography in assessing mastectomy skin flap necrosis in the intraoperative and postoperative setting.

In the era of next-generation sequencing, the genetic background of cancer, including melanoma, appears to be thoroughly established. However, evaluating the oncogene BRAF mutation in codon V600 is still the only companion diagnostic genomic test commonly implemented in clinics for molecularly targeted treatment of advanced melanoma. Are we wasting the collected genomic data? Will we implement our current genomic knowledge of melanoma in clinics soon? This question is rather urgent because new therapeutic targets and biomarkers are needed to implement more personalized, patient-tailored therapy in clinics. Here, we provide an update on the molecular background of melanoma, including a description of four already established molecular subtypes: BRAF+, NRAS+, NF1+, and triple WT, as well as relatively new NGS-derived melanoma genes such as PREX2, ERBB4, PPP6C, FBXW7, PIK3CA, and IDH1. We also present a comparison of genomic profiles obtained in recent years with a focus on the most common melanoma genes. Finally, we propose our melanoma gene panel consisting of 22 genes that, in our opinion, are "must-have" genes in both melanoma-specific genomic tests and pan-cancer tests established to improve the treatment of melanoma further.

In the era of next-generation sequencing, the genetic background of cancer, including melanoma, appears to be thoroughly established. However, evaluating the oncogene BRAF mutation in codon V600 is still the only companion diagnostic genomic test commonly implemented in clinics for molecularly targeted treatment of advanced melanoma. Are we wasting the collected genomic data? Will we implement our current genomic knowledge of melanoma in clinics soon? This question is rather urgent because new therapeutic targets and biomarkers are needed to implement more personalized, patient-tailored therapy in clinics. Here, we provide an update on the molecular background of melanoma, including a description of four already established molecular subtypes: BRAF+, NRAS+, NF1+, and triple WT, as well as relatively new NGS-derived melanoma genes such as PREX2, ERBB4, PPP6C, FBXW7, PIK3CA, and IDH1. We also present a comparison of genomic profiles obtained in recent years with a focus on the most common melanoma genes. Finally, we propose our melanoma gene panel consisting of 22 genes that, in our opinion, are "must-have" genes in both melanoma-specific genomic tests and pan-cancer tests established to improve the treatment of melanoma further.

Fibroblast growth factor1 is a powerful signaling molecule that plays a critical role in injury repair of diverse tissue by stimulating cell growth and angiogenesis. FGF1 has significant role in the cell fate and regulating inflammation with short half-life and poor in vivo stability. The encapsulation of the growth factor in the hydrogel led to peptide protect from the degradation and/or immune recognition and enable controlled drug delivery over a longer period of time. The aim of this study is to develop and evaluate a hydrogel carrier with adjustable release rate while maintaining bioactivity of FGF1. Here we describe an optimal ratio of sodium alginate and polyacrylic acid without additional cross linker containing FGF1 with the potential of sustained release to be used as a therapeutic agent. The carrier was characterized by FTIR, contact angel and swelling ratio and then variety of FGF1 concentration tested to find the optimum release. The activity of FGF1 after release from the hydrogel was confirmed by ELISA and Western blot. This hydrogel is able to deliver growth factors by restricting the essential proteins within the matrix to prevent rapid proteolysis and explosive release and is therefore widely applicable.

Extraperitoneal colostomy is often selected to reduce the risk of parastomal hernia. However, its closure surgery is rare and seldom reported. Here, we report our unique experience with robotic left hemicolectomy and extraperitoneal colostomy closure. An 83-year-old female was diagnosed with descending colon cancer with stenosis. She had previously undergone abdominoperineal resection with extraperitoneal colostomy. After improving the intestinal obstruction with a self-expanding stent, we performed robotic left hemicolectomy and extraperitoneal colostomy closure. Thanks to the multijoint function of the robot, which enables the forceps to be angled up to 90° in all directions, we could dissect the stoma from the abdominal wall up to just beneath the rectus abdominis in an intra-abdominal procedure without enlarging the skin incision. This case suggests that robotic surgery with the articulating function is beneficial for procedures near the abdominal wall ceiling and effective for extraperitoneal colostomy closure.

Intratumoural oncolytic virotherapy may have promise as a means to debulk and downstage inoperable tumours in preparation for successful surgery. Here, we describe the unique case of a 50-year-old self-experimenting female virologist with locally recurrent muscle-invasive breast cancer who was able to proceed to simple, non-invasive tumour resection after receiving multiple intratumoural injections of research-grade virus preparations, which first included an Edmonston-Zagreb measles vaccine strain (MeV) and then a vesicular stomatitis virus Indiana strain (VSV), both prepared in her own laboratory. The intratumoural virus therapy was well tolerated. Frequent imaging studies and regular clinical observations documenting size, consistency and mobility of the injected tumour demonstrate that both the MeV- and VSV-containing parts of the protocol contributed to the overall favourable response. Two months after the start of the virus injections, the shrunken tumour was no longer invading the skin or underlying muscle and was surgically excised. The excised tumour showed strong lymphocytic infiltration, with an increase in CD20-positive B cells, CD8-positive T cells and macrophages. PD-L1 expression was detected in contrast to the baseline PD-L1-negative phenotype. The patient completed one-year trastuzumab adjuvant therapy and remains well and recurrence-free 45 months post-surgery. Although an isolated case, it encourages consideration of oncolytic virotherapy as a neoadjuvant treatment modality.

Amphiphilic copolymers (ACs) are versatile systems with self-assembling and aggregating properties, enabling the formation of nanomaterials (NMs) such as micelles, vesicles, nanocapsules, and nanogels. These materials have been extensively explored for the delivery of various drugs and active compounds, enhancing the solubility and permeation of poorly water-soluble drugs into skin tissue. This improvement facilitates the treatment of skin diseases, including chronic conditions like cancer, as well as infections caused by bacteria, fungi, and viruses. This review summarizes recent applications of ACs in skin treatment, with a particular focus on their use in anti-cancer drug therapy. It covers the synthesis, classification, and characterization of ACs using various experimental techniques. Additionally, it discusses recent research on different drug delivery pathways using ACs, including encapsulation efficiency, release behavior, characteristics, applications, and responses to various chemical and physical stimuli (both in vivo and in vitro). Furthermore, this review provides a comprehensive analysis of the effects of ACs NMs on several skin diseases, highlighting their potential as alternative treatments.

Skin cancer is a high-incidence complex disease, representing a significant challenge to public health, with conventional treatments often having limited efficacy and severe side effects. Nanocarrier-based systems provide a controlled, targeted, and efficacious methodology for the delivery of therapeutic molecules, leading to enhanced therapeutic efficacy, the protection of active molecules from degradation, and reduced adverse effects. These features are even more relevant in dual-loaded nanosystems, with the encapsulated drug molecules leading to synergistic antitumor effects. This review examines the potential of improving the treatment of skin cancer through dual-loaded liposomal systems. The performed analysis focused on the characterization of the developed liposomal formulations' particle size, polydispersity index, zeta potential, encapsulation efficiency, drug release, and in vitro and/or in vivo therapeutic efficacy and safety. The combination of therapeutic agents such as doxorubicin, 5-fluorouracil, paclitaxel, cetuximab, celecoxib, curcumin, resveratrol, quercetin, bufalin, hispolon, ceramide, DNA, STAT3 siRNA, Bcl-xl siRNA, Aurora-A inhibitor XY-4, 1-Methyl-tryptophan, and cytosine-phosphate-guanosine anionic peptide led to increased and targeted anticancer effects, having relevant complementary effects as well, including antioxidant, anti-inflammatory, and immunomodulatory activities, all relevant in skin cancer pathophysiology. The substantial potential of co-loaded liposomal systems as highly promising for advancing skin cancer treatment is demonstrated.

Melanoma, the most aggressive form of skin cancer, presents a major clinical challenge due to its tendency to metastasize and recalcitrance to traditional therapies. Despite advances in surgery, chemotherapy, and radiotherapy, the outlook for advanced melanoma remains bleak, reinforcing the urgent need for more effective treatments. Photodynamic therapy (PDT) has emerged as a promising alternative, leading to targeted tumor destruction with minimal harm to surrounding tissues. In this study, the direct and abscopal antitumor effects of PDT in a bilateral murine melanoma model were evaluated. Although only one of the two tumors was treated, effects were observed in both. Our findings revealed significant changes in systemic inflammation and alterations in CD4<sup>+</sup> and CD8<sup>+</sup> T cell populations in treated groups, as evidenced by blood analyses and flow cytometry. High-throughput RNA sequencing (RNA-Seq) further unveiled shifts in gene expression profiles in both treated and untreated tumors. This research sheds light on the novel antitumor and abscopal effects of nanoemulsion of aluminum chloride phthalocyanine (AlPcNE)-mediated PDT in melanoma, highlighting the potential of different PDT protocols to modulate immune responses and to achieve more effective and targeted cancer treatments.

Woman's breast cancer has always been among the top ten causes of cancer death, and nearly 2% to 5% of locally advanced breast cancers develop a fungating breast wound. Fungal breast cancer leads to skin ulcers, wound ruptures, and other bacterial infections in patients. Ursolic acid (UA), a natural pentacyclic triterpene compound, is widely distributed in many fruits. Previous studies demonstrated that UA has anti-breast cancer, antifungal, and improved wound-healing effects. UA, however, had poor water solubility and low bioavailability, restricting its clinical application. Nanofibers have the advantages of rapid dissolution, improved stability, and bioavailability of active ingredients. We had successfully prepared ursolic acid nanofibers (UANFs) and effectively improved their water solubility and skin penetration. UANFs can increase water solubility by improving the physicochemical properties, including increased surface area, intermolecular bonding with excipients, and amorphous transformation. Furthermore, UANFs had better anti-breast cancer activity than raw UA. UANFs inhibited the expression of phospho-signal transducer and activator of transcription 3 (STAT3) and phospho-extracellular regulated protein kinases (ERK)1/2, and induced cleaved caspase-3 protein expression, but had no effect on the raw UA treatment. In summary, UANFs enhanced the skin absorption of UA and improved its anti-breast cancer efficacy. We expect that UANFs can be used as an anti-breast cancer treatment and reduce the discomfort of breast cancer patients during dressing changes, but more detailed efficacy and safety trials still need to be conducted in further studies.

Skin cancer is threatening more and more people's health; its postoperative recurrence and wound infection are still critical challenges. Therefore, specialty wound dressings with multifunctional bioactivity are urgently desired. Emodin is a natural anthraquinone compound that has anti-cancer and anti-bacterial properties. Herein, we fabricated coaxial electrospinning nanofibers loaded with emodin to exploit a multifunctional wound dressing for skin cancer postoperative management, which encapsulated emodin in a polyvinylpyrrolidone core layer, combined with chitosan-polycaprolactone as a shell layer. The nanofibers were characterized via morphology, physicochemical nature, drug load efficiency, pH-dependent drug release profiles, and biocompatibility. Meanwhile, the anti-cancer and anti-bacterial effects were evaluated in vitro. The emodin-loaded nanofibers exhibited smooth surfaces with a relatively uniform diameter distribution and a clear shell-core structure; remarkably, emodin was evenly dispersed in the nanofibers with significantly enhanced dissolution of emodin. Furthermore, they not only display good wettability, high emodin entrapment efficiency, and biphasic release profile but also present superior biocompatibility and anti-cancer properties by increasing the levels of MDA and ROS in A-375 and HSC-1 cells via apoptosis-related pathway, and long-term anti-bacterial effects in a dose-independent manner. The findings indicate that the emodin-loaded nanofiber wound dressing can provide a potential treatment strategy for skin cancer postoperative management.

The major environmental factor responsible for skin cancer is ultraviolet (UV) radiation, present in sunlight. UV radiation is directly linked to the production of reactive oxygen species (ROS), which accumulate in exposed cells and cause serious damage. The antioxidant systems present in cells cannot always sufficiently neutralize the ROS. Therefore, supplementation with exogenous antioxidants has been proposed. The antioxidant properties of some isoflavones, such as genistein, have already been well-proven. Genistein has limited bioavailability. However, its derivatives, with increased lipophilicity, could facilitate its transfer into cells, where they can expose its antioxidative potential. This study aims to investigate three genistein derivatives, with greater lipophilicity than the native compound, regarding their cytotoxicity, antioxidative properties, and effect on the cell cycle in normal human dermal fibroblasts (NHDF) and a melanoma cancer cell line (Me45). Results showed that lipophilic modification of the genistein molecule changes the biological response of NHDF and Me45 cell lines to UV-C radiation, but the lipophilicity cannot be directly linked with the activity of the compounds. A comparison of the effects of the genistein derivatives on healthy and cancerous cells suggests that their mode of action strongly depends on the type of cell involved.

Little is known about the aetiology of thymoma. This study aims to identify medical risk factors for thymoma as a systematic approach to new hypotheses on the aetiology of this disease. A European multi-centre case-control study was conducted from 1995 to 1997, including incident cases aged 35-69 years with thymoma. Altogether, we accepted 85 cases and 3350 controls, of which we interviewed 77 cases and 2071 population controls about constitutional factors, medical examinations, and former diseases. Odds ratios (ORs) with 95% confidence intervals (CI) were calculated. Medical examinations with X-ray or radiotherapy performed >20 times at least one year before the thymoma diagnosis indicated a possible risk factor for thymoma (OR 1.58, 95% CI 0.93-2.69). Having the first radiotherapy treatment at least one year before the thymoma diagnosis yielded an OR for thymoma of 2.39; 95% CI (0.96-5.99), and if it was at least five years before, the OR for thymoma was 2.81; 95% CI (1.03-7.72). Having a red/auburn hair colour was associated with thymoma, (OR 3.6, 95% CI 1.4-9.5) whereas having pigmented skin was slightly associated with thymoma (OR 1.8, 95% CI 0.8-3.8). Over twenty instances of X-ray examinations or radiotherapy were identified as potential risk factors for thymoma, along with certain constitutional factors. The observed correlations between benign tumours and thymoma could stem from an inherent predisposition to tumour development or result from detection bias. Given that this is the initial analytical study examining medical risk factors for thymoma, all of the results should be approached with caution, acknowledging the possibility that some findings might be incidental.

(1) Background: Periocular or periorbital dermatitis is a common term for all inflammatory skin diseases affecting the area of skin around the eyes. The clear etiopathogenesis of periocular dermatitis is still not fully understood. Advances in molecular techniques for studying microorganisms living in and on our bodies have highlighted the microbiome as a possible contributor to disease, as well as a promising diagnostic marker and target for innovative treatments. The aim of this study was to compare the composition and diversity of the skin microbiota in the periocular region between healthy individuals and individuals affected by the specific entity of periocular dermatitis. (2) Methods: A total of 35 patients with periocular dermatitis and 39 healthy controls were enrolled in the study. After a skin swab from the periocular region was taken from all participants, DNA extraction and 16S rRNA gene amplicon sequencing using Illumina NovaSeq technology were performed. (3) Results: <i>Staphylococcus</i> and <i>Corynebacterium</i> were the most abundant bacterial genera in the microbiota of healthy skin. Analysis of alpha diversity revealed a statistically significant change (<i>p</i> < 0.05) in biodiversity based on the Faith's PD index between patients and healthy individuals. We did not observe changes in beta diversity. The linear discriminant analysis effect size (LEfSe) revealed that <i>Rothia</i>, <i>Corynebacterium</i>, <i>Bartonella,</i> and <i>Paracoccus</i> were enriched in patients, and <i>Anaerococcus</i>, <i>Bacteroides</i>, <i>Porphyromonas</i>, and <i>Enhydrobacter</i> were enriched in healthy controls. (4) Conclusions: According to the results obtained, we assume that the observed changes in the bacterial microbiota on the skin, particularly Gram-positive anaerobic cocci and skin commensals of the genus <i>Corynebacterium</i>, could be one of the factors in the pathogenesis of the investigated inflammatory diseases. The identified differences in the microbiota between healthy individuals and patients with periocular dermatitis should be further investigated.

Ocular adnexal sebaceous carcinoma (SebCA) represents one of the most clinically problematic periocular tumors, often requiring aggressive surgical resection. The pathobiology of this tumor remains poorly understood, and few models exist that are suitable for preclinical testing. The aim of this study was to establish new cell lines to serve as models for pathobiological and drug testing. With patient consent, freshly resected tumor tissue was cultured using conditional reprogramming cell conditions. Standard techniques were used to characterize the cell lines in terms of overall growth, clonogenicity, apoptosis, and differentiation in vitro. Additional analyses including Western blotting, short tandem repeat (STR) profiling, and next-generation sequencing (NGS) were performed. Drug screening using mitomycin-C (MMC), 5-fluorouricil (5-FU), and 6-Diazo-5-oxo-L-norleucine (DON) were performed. JHH-SebCA01, JHH-SebCA02, and JHH-SebCA03 cell lines were established from two women and one man undergoing surgical resection of eyelid tumors. At passage 15, they each showed a doubling time of two to three days, and all could form colonies in anchorage-dependent conditions, but not in soft agar. The cells contained cytoplasmic vacuoles consistent with sebaceous differentiation, and adipophilin protein was present in all three lines. STR profiling confirmed that all lines were derived from their respective patients. NGS of the primary tumors and their matched cell lines identified numerous shared mutations, including alterations similar to those previously described in SebCA. Treatment with MMC or 5-FU resulted in dose-dependent growth inhibition and the induction of both apoptosis and differentiation. MYC protein was abundant in all three lines, and the glutamine metabolism inhibitor DON, previously shown to target high MYC tumors, slowed the growth of all our SebCA models. Ocular adnexal SebCA cell lines can be established using conditional reprogramming cell conditions, and our three new models are useful for testing therapies and interrogating the functional role of MYC and other possible molecular drivers. Current topical chemotherapies promote both apoptosis and differentiation in SebCA cells, and these tumors appear sensitive to inhibition or MYC-associated metabolic changes.

Immune checkpoint inhibitors (ICIs) have transformed cancer treatment by enhancing anti-tumour immune responses, demonstrating significant efficacy in various malignancies, including melanoma. However, over 50% of patients experience limited or no response to ICI therapy. Resistance to ICIs is influenced by a complex interplay of tumour intrinsic and extrinsic factors. This review summarizes current ICIs for melanoma and the factors involved in resistance to the treatment. We also discuss emerging evidence that the microbiota can impact ICI treatment outcomes by modulating tumour biology and anti-tumour immune function. Furthermore, microbiota profiles may offer a non-invasive method for predicting ICI response. Therefore, future research into microbiota manipulation could provide cost-effective strategies to enhance ICI efficacy and improve outcomes for melanoma patients.

Cutaneous metastatic melanoma (CMM) is the most aggressive form of skin cancer with a poor prognosis. Drug-induced secondary tumorigenesis and the emergency of drug resistance worsen an already worrying scenario, thus rendering urgent the development of new treatments not dealing with mutable cellular processes. Triphenyl phosphonium salts (TPPSs), in addiction to acting as cytoplasmic membrane disruptors, are reported to be mitochondria-targeting compounds, exerting anticancer effects mainly by damaging their membranes and causing depolarization, impairing mitochondria functions and their DNA, triggering oxidative stress (OS), and priming primarily apoptotic cell death. TPP-based bola amphiphiles are capable of self-forming nanoparticles (NPs) with enhanced biological properties, as commonly observed for nanomaterials. Already employed in several other biomedical applications, the per se selective potent antibacterial effects of a TPP bola amphiphile have only recently been demonstrated on 50 multidrug resistant (MDR) clinical superbugs, as well as its exceptional and selective anticancer properties on sensitive and MDR neuroblastoma cells. Here, aiming at finding new molecules possibly developable as new treatments for counteracting CMM, the effects of this TPP-based bola amphiphile (BPPB) have been investigated against two BRAF mutants CMM cell lines (MeOV and MeTRAV) with excellent results (even IC<sub>50</sub> = 49 nM on MeOV after 72 h treatment). With these findings and considering the low cytotoxicity of BPPB against different mammalian non-tumoral cell lines and red blood cells (RBCs, selectivity indexes up to 299 on MeOV after 72 h treatment), the possible future development of BPPB as topical treatment for CMM lesions was presumed. With this aim, a biodegradable hyaluronic acid (HA)-based hydrogel formulation (HA-BPPB-HG) was prepared without using any potentially toxic crosslinking agents simply by dispersing suitable amounts of the two ingredients in water and sonicating under gentle heating. HA-BPPB-HA was completely characterized, with promising outcomes such as high swelling capability, high porosity, and viscous elastic rheological behavior.

Malignant melanoma outcomes have drastically changed in recent years due to the introduction of immune checkpoint inhibitors (ICIs). However, many patients still experience intolerable side effects, therapy resistance, and disease progression on ICI therapy. Therefore, there remains a need for novel therapeutics that address this gap in treatment options. Cell-based therapies have gained wide attention as a therapeutic option that could address this gap in treatment options for advanced melanoma. These therapies work by extracting certain cell types produced in the human body such as T-cells, modifying them based on a specific target, and transfusing them back into the patient. In the realm of cancer therapy, cell-based therapies utilize immune cells to target tumor cells while sparing healthy cells. Recently, the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) has approved the usage of lifileucel, a tumor-infiltrating lymphocyte (TIL) therapy, in advanced melanoma. This came following recent results from the C-144-01 study (NCT02360579), which demonstrated the efficacy and safety of TILs in metastatic melanoma patients who otherwise failed on standard ICI/targeted therapy. Thus, the results of this trial as well as the recent FDA approval have proven the viability of utilizing cell-based therapies to fill the gap in treatment options for patients with advanced melanoma. This review aims to provide a comprehensive overview of major cell-based therapies that have been utilized in melanoma by delineating results of the most recent multi-center phase II/ III clinical trials that evaluate the efficacy and safety of major cell-based therapies in melanoma. Additionally, we provide a summary of current limitations in each cell-based therapeutic option as well as a future direction of how to further extrapolate these cell-based therapies in advanced melanoma.

We aimed to provide an updated narrative review with respect to the <i>RET</i> pathogenic variants and their implications at the clinical and molecular level in the diagnosis of medullary thyroid cancer (MTC)/multiple endocrine neoplasia (MEN) type 2, particularly with respect to the presence of cutaneous lichen amyloidosis (CLA). We searched English-language, in extenso original articles with no timeline nor study design restriction that were published on PubMed. A traditional interplay stands for CLA and MTC in MEN2 (not MEN3) confirmation. While the connection has been reported for more than three decades, there is still a large gap in understanding and addressing it. The majority of patients with MEN2A-CLA have <i>RET</i> pathogenic variants at codon 634; hence, it suggests an involvement of this specific cysteine residue in both disorders (most data agree that one-third of C634-positive subjects have CLA, but the ranges are between 9% and 50%). Females seem more prone to MEN2-CLA than males. Non-C634 germline <i>RET</i> pathogenic variants included (at a low level of statistical evidence) the following: <i>RET</i> V804M mutation in exon 14 for MTC-CLA (CLA at upper back); <i>RET</i> S891A mutation in exon 15 binding <i>OSMR</i> variant G513D (familial MTC and CLA comprising the lower legs to thighs, upper back, shoulders, arms, and forearms); and C611Y (CLA at interscapular region), respectively. Typically, CLA is detected at an early age (from childhood until young adulthood) before the actual MTC identification unless <i>RET</i> screening protocols are already applied. The time frame between CLA diagnosis and the identification of <i>RET</i> pathogenic variants was between 5 and 60 years according to one study. The same <i>RET</i> mutation in one family is not necessarily associated with the same CLA presentation. In MTC/MEN2 subjects, the most affected CLA area was the scapular region of the upper back. Alternatively, another hypothesis highlighted the fact that CLA is secondary to long-term prurit/notalgia paresthetica (NP) in MTC/MEN2. <i>OSMR</i> p. G513D may play a role in modifying the evolutionary processes of CLA in subjects co-harboring <i>RET</i> mutations (further studies are necessary to sustain this aspect). Awareness in CLA-positive patients is essential, including the decision of <i>RET</i> testing in selected cases.

<b>Background</b>: Radiation therapy is a crucial component of breast cancer treatment. However, it is well known to increase the risk of unsatisfactory cosmetic outcomes and higher complication rates. The aim of this study is to provide further insight into the use of acellular dermal matrices (ADMs) for the prevention of capsular contracture. <b>Materials and Methods</b>: This single-center, retrospective study analyzed irradiated patients who underwent post-mastectomy, ADM-assisted implant reconstructions. Of the 60 patients included, 26 underwent expander-to-implant substitution after radiotherapy (Group A), while 34 required implant replacement due to capsular contracture following radiotherapy (Group B). The primary objective was to evaluate the effectiveness of ADMs in reducing reconstructive failures, complications, and capsular contracture after breast irradiation. <b>Results</b>: We recorded a total of 15 complications and four implant losses. Reconstructive failures were attributed to implant exposure in two cases, full-thickness skin necrosis in one case, and severe Baker grade IV contracture in one case. Both Group A and Group B showed a significant decrease in postoperative Baker grades. US follow-up was used to demonstrate ADM integration with host tissues over time. <b>Conclusions</b>: Based on our findings, the use of ADM in selected cases appears to be a viable option for treating and preventing capsular contracture in irradiated breasts. This approach is associated with relatively low complication rates, a low rate of reconstructive failure, and satisfactory cosmetic outcomes and can be applied both in breast reconstructed with implants and with expanders.

<b>Background</b>: Basal cell carcinoma is the most common nonmelanoma skin cancer, followed by cutaneous squamous cell carcinoma. The objective of the current study was to retrospectively evaluate the epidemiology, characteristic variations, histological aspects, and prognosis of basal cell carcinoma of the facial region based on a single-centre experience. <b>Methods</b>: Data from 125 patients admitted to the Department of Oral and Maxillofacial Surgery, University Medical Center Schleswig-Holstein (UKSH), Kiel, for surgical treatment of basal cell carcinomas of the face between January 2015 and April 2021 were evaluated. <b>Results</b>: The mean patient age was 79.58 years, 60.5% were male and 39.5% were female. Six patients (4.8%) had tumour recurrence with no regional metastasis. Seventy-nine patients (63%) were classified as T1. The nose and the temporal region were the most common areas. The mean tumour thickness was 3.20 mm. <b>Conclusions</b>: Micronodular, sclerosing/morphoeic, nodular, and superficial growth patterns of basal cell carcinoma are highly correlated to recurrence, so an excision safety margin is recommended. There is a strong correlation between tumour thickness and recurrence among basal cell carcinoma cases. When completely excised, the recurrence rate for basal cell carcinoma is relatively low.

The large T antigen (LT) of the Merkel cell polyomavirus (MCPyV) is crucial for Merkel cell carcinoma (MCC), a rare but very aggressive form of neuroendocrine skin cancer. The clonal integration of MCPyV DNA into the host genome is a signature event of this malignancy. The resulting expression of oncogenes, including the small T (sT) antigen and a truncated form of the LT (truncLT), directly contribute to carcinogenesis. The truncation of the C-terminus of LT prevents the virus from replicating due to the loss of the origin binding domain (OBD) and the helicase domain. This precludes cytopathic effects that would lead to DNA damage and ultimately cell death. At the same time, the LxCxE motif in the N-terminus is retained, allowing truncLT to bind the retinoblastoma protein (pRb), a cellular tumor suppressor. The continuously inactivated pRb promotes cell proliferation and tumor development. truncLT exerts several classical functions of an oncogene: altering the host cell cycle, suppressing innate immune responses to viral DNA, causing immune escape, and shifting metabolism in favor of cancer cells. Given its central role in MCC, the LT is a major target for therapeutic interventions with novel approaches, such as immune checkpoint inhibition, T cell-based immunotherapy, and cancer vaccines.

The prevalence of squamous cell carcinoma is increasing, and efforts that aid in an early and accurate diagnosis are crucial to improve clinical outcomes for patients. Cornulin, a squamous epithelium-specific protein, has recently garnered attention due to its implications in the progression of squamous cell carcinoma developed in several tissues. As an epidermal differentiation marker, it is involved in skin anchoring, regulating cellular proliferation, and is a putative tumor suppressor. The physiologically healthy squamous epithelium displays a considerable level of Cornulin, whereas squamous cell carcinomas have marked downregulation, suggesting that Cornulin expression levels can be utilized for the early detection and follow-up on the progression of these types of cancer. Cornulin's expression patterns in cervical cancer have been examined, and findings support the stepwise downregulation of Cornulin levels that accompanies the progression to neoplasia in the cervix. Additional studies documented a similar trend in expression in other types of cancer, such as cutaneous, esophageal, and oropharyngeal squamous cell carcinomas. The consistent and predictable pattern of Cornulin expression across several squamous cell carcinomas and its correlation with key clinicopathological parameters make it a reliable biomarker for assessing the transformation and progression events in the squamous epithelium, thus potentially contributing to the early detection, definitive diagnosis, and more favorable prognosis for these cancer patients.

<i>Background and Objectives</i>: The relationship between hepatitis C virus (HCV) infection and melanoma remains poorly understood. This study aimed to investigate the association between HCV and melanoma, assess outcomes in patients with both conditions, and explore potential molecular mechanisms connecting the two diseases. <i>Materials and Methods</i>: We conducted a retrospective cohort study of 142 melanoma patients, including 29 with HCV-related cirrhosis, and analyzed their clinical outcomes. For external validation, we used the TriNetX Global Collaborative Network database, comprising 219,960 propensity-matched patients per group. An in silico analysis was performed to identify the molecular pathways linking HCV and melanoma. <i>Results</i>: In the retrospective cohort, HCV-positive melanoma patients showed an increased risk of early relapse (41.4% vs. 18.6%, <i>p</i> = 0.014), recurrence (65.5% vs. 39.8%, <i>p</i> = 0.020), and mortality (65.5% vs. 23.0%, <i>p</i> < 0.001) compared to HCV-negative patients. TriNetX data analysis revealed that HCV-positive patients had a 53% lower risk of developing melanoma (RR = 0.470, 95% CI: 0.443-0.498, <i>p</i> < 0.001). However, HCV-positive melanoma patients had higher all-cause mortality (HR = 1.360, 95% CI: 1.189-1.556, <i>p</i> < 0.001). An in silico analysis identified key molecular players, including IL-6 and CTLA4, in the HCV-melanoma network. <i>Conclusions</i>: While HCV infection may be associated with a lower risk of melanoma development, HCV-positive patients who develop melanoma have poorer outcomes. The identified molecular pathways provide potential targets for future research and therapeutic interventions.

<i>Background and Objectives:</i> The radial forearm free flap (RFFF) is the most commonly used flap for head and neck reconstruction. However, complications at the donor site are its major drawbacks. We aimed to identify the patient comorbidities and factors that predict donor site complications after RFFF. <i>Materials and Methods:</i> A retrospective chart review of consecutive patients who underwent RFFF reconstruction for head and neck cancer between 2015 and 2022 was performed. Demographic variables, clinical processes, and postoperative complications were assessed. All variables were analyzed using univariate and multivariate analyses. <i>Results:</i> Sixty-seven patients underwent RFFF reconstruction, and all received a split-thickness skin graft at the donor site. Twenty-five patients experienced delayed skin graft healing, whereas nine experienced sensory changes at the donor site. Hypertension and age had statistically significant negative effects on wound healing. The incidence of hand swelling was related to graft size, and the occurrence of paresthesia was significantly higher in diabetic patients and significantly lower in those with acellular dermal matrix (ADM). <i>Conclusions:</i> Patients with hypertension had a higher risk of prolonged wound healing after RFFF than their normotensive patients. Clinicians should pay particular attention to wound healing strategies in patients with hypertension. Additionally, better neuropathy care is recommended to achieve sensory recovery after RFFF in patients with diabetes. Using a skin graft with ADM could be a method to alleviate neurological symptoms.

<i>Background and Objectives:</i> Cutaneous squamous cell carcinoma is the second most common skin cancer. There are many methods for the reconstruction of facial subunit defects after skin cancer excision. The face is vital to a person's life and should be reconstructed considering functional and aesthetic aspects. Despite a variety of flap types and techniques, it is still challenging to meet the various demands. The aim of this study was to compare free flaps for facial reconstruction after resection of cutaneous squamous cell carcinoma. <i>Materials and Methods:</i> This study included 14 patients from January 2021 to June 2023. Patients who underwent facial SCC resection and subsequent reconstruction using free flaps were analyzed retrospectively. Age, sex, and localization were recorded. Follow-ups ranged from 5 to 21 months, with an average of 13 months. <i>Results:</i> All free flaps survived well except one case of partial flap necrosis. In most patients, good to excellent functional and aesthetic results were obtained. The donor site healed uneventfully in all patients. <i>Conclusions:</i> Free flap reconstruction is an excellent choice in wide skin oncologic defects. In terms of texture, it also could be a good surgical method. The use of a fraxel laser can progressively facilitate improved color matching with the surrounding skin.

The diagnosis of basal cell carcinoma (BCC) in dark phototypes can be a challenging task due to the lack of relevant clues and its variable presentation. In this regard, there is growing evidence that dermoscopy may benefit the recognition of BCC even for skin of color (SoC). The objective of this review is to provide an up-to-date overview on clinical and dermoscopic patterns of BCC in SoC, also comparing such findings with those of the main clinical mimickers reported in the literature. A comprehensive search of the literature through the PubMed electronic database was carried out in order to identify papers describing the clinical and dermoscopic features of BCC in dark phototypes (IV-VI). By finding macroscopic clinical presentations of BCCs in SoC patients and any possible clinical mimickers considered in the retrieved papers, we built a differential diagnosis list and analyzed the dermoscopic findings of such conditions to facilitate the diagnosis of BCC. BCC in darker skin may present as pigmented nodular lesions, pigmented patches or plaques, ulcers, erythematous nodular lesions, erythematous plaques or patches, or scar-like lesions, depending on its subtype and body site. The differential diagnosis for BCC in patients with SoC includes squamous cell carcinoma, melanoma, nevi, adnexal tumors and sebaceous keratosis. Additionally, it differs from that of Caucasians, as it also includes lesions less common in fair skin, such as dermatosis papulosa nigra, melanotrichoblastoma, and pigmented dermatofibrosarcoma protuberans, and excludes conditions like actinic keratosis and keratoacanthoma, which rarely appear in darker skin. The resulting differences also include infectious diseases such as deep cutaneous mycosis and inflammatory dermatoses. The most prevalent differentiating dermoscopic feature for BCC includes blue, black and gray dots, though arborizing vessels still remain the predominant BCC feature, even in dark phototypes. Diagnostic approach to BCC in dark-skinned patients varies due to the prevalence of dermoscopy findings associated with hyperpigmented structures. Clinicians should be aware of such points of differentiation for a proper management of this tumor in SoC.

Prostate cancer is the second most common neoplasia and fifth-leading cause of cancer death in men worldwide. Electromagnetic and magnetic fields have been classified as possible human carcinogens, but current understanding of molecular and cellular pathways involved is very limited. Effects due to extremely low magnetic/hypomagnetic fields (LMF) are furthermore poorly understood. Extracellular vesicles (EVs) are crucial mediators of cellular communication with multifaceted roles in cancer progression, including via transport and uptake of various protein and microRNA (miRNA) EV-cargoes. miRNAs regulate gene expression and are implicated in cancer-related processes such as proliferation, metastasis, and chemoresistance. This study investigated the effects of LMF exposure (20 nT) by magnetic shielding on the prostate cancer cell line PC3 compared to the prostate epithelial cell line PNT2 under short-term (4 h) conditions. We examined EV profiles following a 4 h LMF exposure alongside associated functional enrichment KEGG and GO pathways for the EV proteomes. The 4 h LMF exposure significantly reduced cellular EV release and modified PC3 EV cargoes to a more inflammatory and metastatic profile, with 16 Disease Pathways and 95 Human Phenotypes associated specifically with the LMF-treated PC3 EV proteomes. These included cancerous, metabolic, blood, skin, cardiac and skeletal Disease Pathways, as well as pain and developmental disorders. In the normal PNT2 cells, less EV protein cargo was observed following LMF exposure compared with cells not exposed to LMF, and fewer associated functional enrichment pathways were identified. This pointed to some differences in various cellular functions, ageing, defence responses, oxidative stress, and disease phenotypes, including respiratory, digestive, immune, and developmental pathways. Furthermore, we analysed alterations in matrix metalloproteinases (MMPs) and miRNAs linked to metastasis, as this is crucial in cancer aggressiveness. The 4 h LMF exposure caused a significant increase in MMP2 and MMP9, as well as in onco-miRs miR-155, miR-210, miR-21, but a significant reduction in tumour-suppressor miRs (miR-200c and miR-126) in the metastatic PC3 cells, compared with normal PNT2 cells. In addition, 4 h LMF exposure significantly induced cellular invasion of PC3 cells. Overall, our findings suggest that changes in magnetic field exposures modulate EV-mediated and miR-regulatory processes in PCa metastasis, providing a basis for exploring novel therapeutic strategies.

(1) Background: Melanoma represents the most aggressive form of skin cancer, with an increasing incidence and numerous risk factors. The COVID-19 pandemic has led to modifications in work protocols. This study aims to elucidate potential changes in the number and characteristics of primary melanomas diagnosed in the Pathology Department of the Târgu Mureș County Clinical Hospital before, during, and after the COVID-19 pandemic. (2) Methods: This study included 140 patients grouped into six periods: two pre-COVID-19 periods, the COVID-19 pandemic period, and three post-COVID-19 periods. Epidemiological data, diagnoses, and histopathological reports were analyzed. (3) Results: The number of cases diagnosed during the COVID-19 pandemic was significantly lower than in the other analyzed periods. Regarding the monitored parameters, a statistically significant increase was observed in the first two post-COVID-19 periods, with a return to values similar to those of the first period in the last analyzed period. Additionally, a statistically significant increase in the incidence of distant metastases was identified in the post-COVID-19 periods. (4) Conclusions: The COVID-19 pandemic had a negative impact on the diagnosis of new melanoma cases, leading to an increase in the number of cases and a worsening of prognostic parameters.

This narrative review provides a comprehensive analysis of skin lesions caused by human papillomavirus (HPV). Human papillomavirus is an infection involving a virus that is omnipresent and can range from benign wart lesions to malignant skin growths. This review includes an analysis of the skin manifestations caused by HPV, and the need for continued successful diagnostic techniques and treatment methods, given the increasing rates of infection among people worldwide. We reviewed all 135 studies related to pathophysiology involving skin, risk factors, and early detection methods like biopsy and molecular testing, from 2000 to 2023. The current treatments, including cryotherapy and laser therapy, are discussed, while the review emphasizes the role of HPV vaccination in preventing infection. Recommendations for the future would involve the improvement of public education and increased vaccine coverage, together with innovative therapies toward better management or control of skin diseases associated with the human papillomavirus (HPV). By advancing these recommendations, we will be in a better position to prevent and treat HPV skin conditions, thus improving the health condition of the general public across the world.

Penetrating deep into the cells of the human body in real time has become increasingly possible with the implementation of modern technologies in medicine. Atomic force microscopy (AFM) enables the effective live imaging of cellular and molecular structures of biological samples (such as cells surfaces, components of biological membranes, cell nuclei, actin networks, proteins, and DNA) and provides three-dimensional surface visualization (in X-, Y-, and Z-planes). Furthermore, the AFM technique enables the study of the mechanical, electrical, and magnetic properties of cells and cell organelles and the measurements of interaction forces between biomolecules. The technique has found wide application in cancer research. With the use of AFM, it is not only possible to differentiate between healthy and cancerous cells, but also to distinguish between the stages of cancerous conditions. For many years, AFM has been an important tool for the study of neurodegenerative diseases associated with the deposition of peptide amyloid plaques. In recent years, a significant amount of research has been conducted on the application of AFM in the evaluation of connective tissue cell mechanics. This review aims to provide the spectrum of the most important applications of the AFM technique in medicine to date.

<b>Background:</b> Neoadjuvant and adjuvant therapies are currently getting increasingly important in cutaneous melanoma (CM) management. However, there is still a lack of prognostic tools to identify which patients have a poor prognosis. There is increasing evidence that the liver score may be a potential prognostic parameter in different tumour types. The aim was to investigate whether established liver scores can establish the prognosis of CM. <b>Methods:</b> According to established methods, the APRI, the MELD score, the MELD-Na score and the De Ritis ratio were calculated from the laboratory values at the time of the initial diagnosis. Survival was compared with the Kaplan-Meier curve and tested with log-rank tests. Risk factors associated with cutaneous melanoma-specific survival (CMSS) and progression-free survival (PFS) were assessed by using the Cox proportional hazards regression model. To determine the diagnostic accuracy, we performed a time-dependent ROC analysis. Results: A total of 423 patients were included, including 141 patients in AJCC stage (2017) I (33.3%), 82 in stage II (19.4%), 128 in stage III (30.3%) and 72 in stage IV (17%). Median time until melanoma-specific death was 99 months (IQR: 37-126). In addition, 37.6% of patients relapsed with a median time to relapse of 88 months (IQR: 17.5-126). In all stages, tumour thickness and ulceration were independent markers for predicting CMSS and PFS (<i>p</i> < 0.05). The multivariable analysis with all stages showed no significant association with CM outcome for liver scores (<i>p</i> > 0.05). The subgroup analysis revealed that the APRI (≥0.2241) was associated with CMSS and PFS in melanoma stages I and II, independently of tumour thickness, age and ulceration (HR 2.57, 95% CI 1.14-5.75; HR 2.94, 95% CI 1.42-6.09, respectively). <b>Conclusions:</b> The 20-year prognosis of AJCC stage I and II CM was dependent on tumour thickness and the APRI. High tumour thickness and an APRI ≥ 0.2241 at the initial diagnosis were associated with a worse prognosis. Future studies should investigate the independent prognostic value of the APRI in low-stage CM. Furthermore, the APRI score could be a potential biomarker for nomograms.

The development of keratinocytic skin tumors, presumably attributable to paradoxical activation of the MAPK pathway, represents a relevant side effect of targeted therapies with BRAF inhibitors (BRAFis). The role of cutaneous papillomavirus infection in BRAFi-associated skin carcinogenesis, however, is still inconclusive. Employing the Mus musculus papillomavirus 1 (MmuPV1) skin infection model, the impact of BRAFis and UVB exposure on papillomavirus induced skin tumorigenesis was investigated in immunocompetent FVB/NCrl mice. Systemic BRAF inhibition in combination with UVB light induced skin tumors in 62% of the MmuPV1-infected animals. In contrast, significantly fewer tumors were observed in the absence of either BRAF inhibition, UVB irradiation or virus infection, as demonstrated by lesional outgrowth in 20%, 5% and 0% of the mice, respectively. Combinatory exposure to BRAFis and UVB favored productive viral infection, which was shown by high numbers of MmuPV1 genome copies and <i>E1^E4</i> spliced transcripts and an abundance of E6/E7 oncogene mRNA and viral capsid proteins. BRAF inhibition, but not viral infection or UVB light, activated ERK1/2, whereas γH2AX expression, inducible by UVB light, remained unaltered by BRAFis. These results provide experimental evidence that BRAF inhibition and UVB irradiation synergistically promote MmuPV1-induced skin tumor development in vivo. This indicates an alternative pathway by which papillomavirus skin infection may contribute to BRAFi-associated skin tumorigenesis.

Cutaneous squamous cell carcinoma (cSCC) is the second most common skin malignancy and poses a significant risk to immunosuppressed patients, such as solid organ transplant recipients and those with hematopoietic malignancies, who are up to 100 times more likely to develop cSCC compared with the general population. This review summarizes the current state of treatment for cSCC in immunosuppressed patients, focusing on prevention, prophylaxis, surgical and non-surgical treatments, and emerging therapies. Preventative measures, including high-SPF sunscreen and prophylactic retinoids, are crucial for reducing cSCC incidence in these patients. Adjusting immunosuppressive regimens, particularly favoring mTOR inhibitors over calcineurin inhibitors, has been shown to lower cSCC risk. Surgical excision and Mohs micrographic surgery remain the primary treatments, with adjuvant radiation therapy recommended for high-risk cases. Traditional chemotherapy and targeted therapies like EGFR inhibitors have been utilized, though their efficacy varies. Immunotherapy, particularly with agents like cemiplimab and pembrolizumab, has shown promise, but its use in immunosuppressed patients requires further investigation due to potential risks of organ rejection and exacerbation of underlying conditions. Treatment of cSCC in immunosuppressed patients is multifaceted, involving preventive strategies, tailored surgical approaches, and cautious use of systemic therapies. While immunotherapy has emerged as a promising option, its application in immunosuppressed populations necessitates further research to optimize safety and efficacy. Future studies should focus on the integration of personalized medicine and combination therapies to improve outcomes for this vulnerable patient group.

Oxidative stress is the result of the imbalance between reactive oxygen and nitrogen species (RONS), which are produced by several endogenous and exogenous processes, and antioxidant defenses consisting of exogenous and endogenous molecules that protect biological systems from free radical toxicity. Oxidative stress is a major factor in the aging process, contributing to the accumulation of cellular damage over time. Oxidative damage to cellular biomolecules, leads to DNA alterations, lipid peroxidation, protein oxidation, and mitochondrial dysfunction resulting in cellular senescence, immune system and tissue dysfunctions, and increased susceptibility to age-related pathologies, such as inflammatory disorders, cardiovascular and neurodegenerative diseases, diabetes, and cancer. Oxidative stress-driven DNA damage and mutations, or methylation and histone modification, which alter gene expression, are key determinants of tumor initiation, angiogenesis, metastasis, and therapy resistance. Accumulation of genetic and epigenetic damage, to which oxidative stress contributes, eventually leads to unrestrained cell proliferation, the inhibition of cell differentiation, and the evasion of cell death, providing favorable conditions for tumorigenesis. Colorectal, breast, lung, prostate, and skin cancers are the most frequent aging-associated malignancies, and oxidative stress is implicated in their pathogenesis and biological behavior. Our aim is to shed light on the molecular and cellular mechanisms that link oxidative stress, aging, and cancers, highlighting the impact of both RONS and antioxidants, provided by diet and exercise, on cellular senescence, immunity, and development of an antitumor response. The dual role of ROS as physiological regulators of cell signaling responsible for cell damage and diseases, as well as its use for anti-tumor therapeutic purposes, will also be discussed. Managing oxidative stress is crucial for promoting healthy aging and reducing the risk of age-related tumors.

Reactive oxygen species (ROS) are highly bioactive molecules involved not only in tissue physiology but also in the development of different human conditions, including premature aging, cardiovascular pathologies, neurological and neurodegenerative disorders, inflammatory diseases, and cancer. Among the different human tumors, cutaneous melanoma, the most aggressive and lethal form of skin cancer, is undoubtedly one of the most well-known "ROS-driven tumor", of which one of the main causes is represented by ultraviolet (UV) rays' exposure. Although the role of excessive ROS production in melanoma development in pro-tumorigenic cell fate is now well established, little is known about its contribution to the progression of the melanoma metastatic process. Increasing evidence suggests a dual role of ROS in melanoma progression: excessive ROS production may enhance cellular growth and promote therapeutic resistance, but at the same time, it can also have cytotoxic effects on cancer cells, inducing their apoptosis. In this context, the aim of the present work was to focus on the relationship between cell redox state and the signaling pathways directly involved in the metastatic processes. In addition, oxidative or antioxidant therapeutic strategies for metastatic melanoma were also reviewed and discussed.

Immunotherapeutic drugs are promising medicines for cancer treatment. A potential candidate for immunotherapy is interleukin-12 (IL-12), a cytokine well known for its ability to mediate antitumor activity. We developed a plasmid encoding human IL-12 devoid of an antibiotic resistance gene (phIL12). For the approval of phase I clinical trials in basal cell carcinoma (BCC), the regulatory agency requires non-clinical in vivo testing of the pharmacodynamic, pharmacokinetic and toxicological properties of the plasmid. As human IL-12 is not biologically active in mice, a mouse ortholog of the plasmid phIL12 (pmIL12) was evaluated. The evaluation demonstrated the antitumor effectiveness of the protein accompanied by immune cell infiltration. The plasmid was distributed throughout the body, and the amount of plasmid diminished over time in all organs except the skin around the tumor. The therapy did not cause any detectable systemic toxicity. The results of the non-clinical evaluation demonstrated the safety and efficacy of the pmIL12/phIL12 GET, and on the basis of these results, approval was obtained for the initiation of a phase I clinical study in BCC.

The spatial co-presence of aberrant long non-coding RNAs (lncRNAs) and abnormal coding genes contributes to malignancy development in various tumors. However, precise coordinated mechanisms underlying this phenomenon in tumorigenesis remains incompletely understood. Here, we show that Prohibitin 2 (PHB2) orchestrates the transcription of an oncogenic CASC15-New-Isoform 2 (CANT2) lncRNA and the coding tumor-suppressor gene CCBE1, thereby accelerating melanoma tumorigenesis. In melanoma cells, PHB2 initially accesses the open chromatin sites at the CANT2 promoter, recruiting MLL2 to augment H3K4 trimethylation and activate CANT2 transcription. Intriguingly, PHB2 further binds the activated CANT2 transcript, targeting the promoter of the tumor-suppressor gene CCBE1. This interaction recruits histone deacetylase HDAC1 to decrease H3K27 acetylation at the CCBE1 promoter and inhibit its transcription, significantly promoting tumor cell growth and metastasis both in vitro and in vivo. Our study elucidates a PHB2-mediated mechanism that orchestrates the aberrant transcription of lncRNAs and coding genes, providing an intriguing epigenetic regulatory model in tumorigenesis.

The Hippo-Yes-associated protein (Hippo-YAP) signaling pathway, a conserved pathway that regulates organ size, participates in tumor progression. However, there are few comprehensive analyses of tumor prognosis and immunity. In the present study, TCGA, GTEx, GEO, TIMER2, STRING, GSCA, ImmuCellAI, and other bioinformatics tools were used to reveal the involvement of the Hippo-YAP signaling pathway in the prognosis and immunity of pan-cancers. The obtained results showed that mRNA expression differences of Hippo-YAP pathway genes between normal samples and tumor samples in pan-cancers and some genes (such as TEAD4, MAP4K4, and STK3) might affect the prognosis of patients with skin cutaneous melanoma (SKCM) and pancreatic adenocarcinoma (PAAD). Furthermore, mutation and methylation of the Hippo-YAP signaling pathway genes in normal and primary tumor tissues differ in various cancers (KIRP, BRCA). Additionally, the relationship between the tumor microenvironment, molecular pathways, and the Hippo-YAP pathway indicated that it might lead to a suppressive immune microenvironment that affects the efficacy of immunotherapy. This is a pan-cancer overview of the Hippo-YAP signaling pathway genes, which explores the aberrant expression or mutation of this pathway that regulates the tumor microenvironment and immunotherapy.

Although antibody-drug conjugate (ADC) or immune checkpoint inhibitors (ICIs) alone fosters hope for the treatment of cancer, the effect of single drug treatment is limited and the safety profile of ADC and ICI therapy remains unclear. This meta-analysis aimed to examine the efficacy and safety of the combination of ADC and ICI therapy. This study type is a systematic review and meta-analysis. Literature retrieval was carried out through PubMed, Embase, Cochrane from inception to Jun. 5, 2024. Then, after data extraction, overall response rate (ORR) and adverse effects (AEs) were used to study its efficiency and safety. Publication bias was also calculated through Funnel plot, Begg's Test and Egger's test. Heterogeneity was investigated through subgroup and sensitivity analysis. The research protocol was registered with the PROSPERO (CRD42023375601). A total of 12 eligible clinical studies with 584 patients were included. The pooled ORR was 58% (95%CI 46%, 70%). Subgroup analysis showed an ORR of 77% (95%CI 63%, 91%) in classical Hodgkin lymphoma (cHL) and an ORR of 73% (95%CI 56%, 90%) in non-Hodgkin lymphoma (NHL). The most common AEs was peripheral neuropathy (38.0%). Meanwhile, AEs on skin (13.1-20.0%) and digestive system (9.0-36.0%) was hard be overlooked. ADC + ICI therapy may be recommended in cancer treatment, especially in cHL and NHL. However, strategies to manage toxicities warranted further exploration.

T cell inhibitory mechanisms prevent autoimmune reactions, while cancer immunotherapy aims to remove these inhibitory signals. Chronic ultraviolet (UV) exposure attenuates autoimmunity through promotion of poorly understood immune-suppressive mechanisms. Here we show that mice with subcutaneous melanoma are not responsive to anti-PD1 immunotherapy following chronic UV irradiation, given prior to tumor injection, due to the suppression of T cell killing ability in skin-draining lymph nodes. Using mass cytometry and single-cell RNA-sequencing analyzes, we discover that skin-specific, UV-induced suppression of T-cells killing activity is mediated by upregulation of a Ly6a<sup>high</sup> T-cell subpopulation. Independently of the UV effect, Ly6a<sup>high</sup> T cells are induced by chronic type-1 interferon in the tumor microenvironment. Treatment with an anti-Ly6a antibody enhances the anti-tumoral cytotoxic activity of T cells and reprograms their mitochondrial metabolism via the Erk/cMyc axis. Treatment with an anti-Ly6a antibody inhibits tumor growth in mice resistant to anti-PD1 therapy. Applying our findings in humans could lead to an immunotherapy treatment for patients with resistance to existing treatments.

Dermatological lesions are typically located just a few millimeters below the surface of the skin, which constrains the efficacy of optical-based therapeutic methods such as photothermal and photodynamic therapy due to limited therapeutic depth caused by optical scattering. As an alternative, high-intensity focused ultrasound (HIFU) has been explored for its potential to treat a variety of dermatological conditions because it offers greater flexibility in terms of treatment depth. Since dermatological lesions have a small thickness ranging from 1.5 to 2.0 mm, high-frequency ultrasound (3-10 MHz or higher) is preferred as the focal area is proportional to the operating frequency. However, due to the difficulty in fabricating HIFU array transducers at this frequency range, the majority of HIFU treatments for dermatology rely on single element transducers. Despite the advantages of HIFU, single-element-based HIFU systems are limited in prevalent use for dermatology treatment due to their fixed focal length and mechanical movement for treatment, which can be time-consuming and unsuitable for treating multiple lesions. To address this, we present a newly developed HIFU linear array and 128-channel driving electronics specifically designed for dermatology treatment. This array consists of 128 elements, has a center frequency of 3.7 MHz, an elevation focal length of 28 mm, and an F-number of 1.27 in the elevation direction. The array has a footprint of 71.6 mm by 22 mm. Experiments using a tissue-mimicking phantom have demonstrated that the HIFU linear array and system are capable of transmitting sufficient ultrasound energy to create coagulation inside the phantom.

Adult-onset immune-mediated inflammatory disease (IMID) increases the risk of several cancers. However, data on pediatric-onset IMID (pIMID) remains scarce. We estimated the long-term cancer risk in pIMID and the association between medical treatment and specific cancers.

Perineural invasion (PNI) is a significant risk factor for cancer recurrence and metastasis; however, its mechanisms relating to cancer aggressiveness remain poorly understood. Here, we present a protocol for a non-surgical model of PNI in mice using a neurotropic melanoma cell line that migrates from the skin to the sciatic nerve. We describe the steps for cell culture and injection, tumor burden measurements, mouse euthanasia, and tissue dissection. We then detail procedures for sample cross-section and confocal imaging.

Eyelid sebaceous gland carcinoma (SGC) is an aggressive skin cancer characterized by a heightened risk of recurrence and metastasis. While surgical excision is the primary treatment, unraveling the molecular intricacies of SGC is imperative for advancing targeted therapeutic interventions and enhancing patient outcomes. This comprehensive review delves into the molecular landscape of eyelid SGC, emphasizing key genetic alterations, signaling pathways, epigenetic modifications, and potential therapeutic targets. Significant findings include aberrations in critical signaling pathways (β-catenin, lymphoid enhancer binding factor, hedgehog, epidermal growth factor receptor, P53, and P21WAF1) associated with SGC progression and poor prognosis. Notably, eyelid SGC manifests a distinctive mutational profile, lacking ultraviolet signature mutations in tumor protein 53 (TP53), indicating alternative mutagenic mechanisms. Next-generation sequencing identifies actionable mutations in genes such as phosphatase and tensin homolog (PTEN) and Erb-B2 receptor tyrosine kinase 2 (ERBB2), facilitating the emergence of personalized medicine approaches. Molecular chaperones, specifically X-linked inhibitor of apoptosis protein (XIAP) and BAG3, emerge as pivotal players in promoting tumor survival and proliferation. The review underscores the role of epithelial-mesenchymal transition, where regulators like E-cadherin, vimentin, and ZEB2 contribute to SGC aggressiveness. Epigenetic modifications, encompassing DNA methylation and microRNA dysregulation, further elucidate the molecular landscape. This review consolidates a comprehensive understanding of the molecular drivers of eyelid SGC, shedding light on potential therapeutic targets and providing a foundation for future investigations in diagnostic, prognostic, and personalized treatment strategies for this formidable malignancy.

Recent advances in Rosai-Dorfman-Destombes disease (RDD), notably molecular testing, targeted therapy, and PET-CT imaging, hold promise for better recognition and improved outcomes. This study presents patients diagnosed and treated in a "real world" setting, where navigating limited resources must be considered. This retrospective single-center review includes 15 adult patients diagnosed with RDD at Vancouver General Hospital between November 2015 and October 2023. The cohort comprised five males and ten females with a median age 53 years (range 19-80 years). All 15 patients had extra-nodal disease; 11 patients exclusively had extra-nodal disease, and four patients also had lymph node involvement. Seven patients had tissue next-generation sequencing, identifying MAP2K1 mutations in four cases and a KRAS p.K117N mutation in one case that was treated with targeted therapy using trametinib. PET-CT was used for disease staging in four cases. Six patients with refractory disease tolerated lenalidomide and dexamethasone without significant toxicity; three patients achieved complete response, and three had partial response. This study highlights RDD's diverse extra-nodal manifestations. Lenalidomide combined with dexamethasone is an effective and well-tolerated treatment option for select patients, especially those with refractory disease. Broad utilization of NGS and PET-CT can positively influence management decisions.

Excessive melanogenesis leads to hyperpigmentation-related cosmetic problems. UV exposure increases oxidative stress, which promotes melanogenesis-related signal pathways such as the PKA, microphthalmia-associated transcription factor (MITF), tyrosinase (TYR), tyrosinase-related protein-1 (TRP1), and tyrosinase-related protein-2 (TRP2) pathways. Glycine is a source of endogenous antioxidants, including glutathione. Fermented fish collagen (FC) contains glycine; thus, we evaluated the effect of FC on decreasing melanogenesis via decreasing oxidative stress. The glycine receptor (GlyR) and glycine transporter-1 (GlyT1) levels were decreased in UV-irradiated keratinocytes; however, the expression levels of these proteins increased upon treatment with FC. The FC decreased oxidative stress, as indicated by the decreasing expression of NOX1/2/4, increased expression of GSH/GSSG, increased SOD activity, and decreased 8-OHdG expression in UV-irradiated keratinocytes. Administration of conditioned media from FC-treated keratinocytes to melanocytes led to decreased p38, PKC, MITF, TRP1, and TRP2 expression. These changes induced by the FC were also observed in UV-irradiated animal skin. FC treatment increased the expression of GlyR and GlyT, which was accompanied by decreased oxidative stress in the UV-irradiated skin. Moreover, the FC negatively regulated the melanogenesis signaling pathways, leading to decreased melanin content in the UV-irradiated skin. In conclusion, FC decreased UV-induced oxidative stress and melanogenesis in melanocytes and animal skin. FC could be used in the treatment of UV-induced hyperpigmentation problems.

Patients with advanced-stage mycosis fungoides (MF IIB-IVB) and Sézary syndrome (SS) have poor prognoses, with survival ranging from 4.7 to 1.4 years depending on the disease stage. There is a need for therapeutic approaches that lead to long-lasting responses and improved quality of life and survival. Mogamulizumab, a humanized antibody against the CCR4 molecule, and low-dose total skin electron beam therapy (TSEBT) are two known established treatments for MF and SS as a monotherapy. However, little is known about the potential additive effect on the combination of both treatments. We report here for the first time the concurrent use of low-dose hypofractionated TSEBT (2 × 4 Gy) with mogamulizumab. Based on two relapsed/refractory and advanced-stage CTCL patients, we show that this combination may be well tolerated in advanced-stage MF or SS and may potentially lead to an additive treatment effect on response times, particularly in the skin and blood within two weeks. We propose that this combination may be a treatment option for patients with SS. Further research is needed to understand the efficacy and tolerability profile of this therapeutic combination and to determine if there is an additive effect of the combination on the response rates when compared with the monotherapy.

Melanoma (malignant melanoma, MM) is an aggressive malignant skin cancer with an increasing incidence rate. The complete pathogenesis of MM in not clear. Due to DNA damage, mutations, dysregulation of growth factors, inactivation of tumor suppressor genes, and activation of oncogenes, excessive uncontrolled growth of abnormal melanocytes occurs in melanomas. Caspases are a group of proteolytic enzymes that participate in several processes important in regulating mechanisms at the cellular level. They play a role in cell homeostasis and programmed cell death (apoptosis) and in the regulation of non-apoptotic cell death processes. Dysregulation of caspase activation plays a role in the etiology of cancers, including melanoma. Caspases can initiate and execute apoptosis and are involved in regulating cell death and controlling tumor growth. These enzymes also inhibit tumor growth by cleaving and inactivating proteins that are involved in cell proliferation and angiogenesis. Moreover, caspases are involved in the activation of immune processes through the processing and presentation of tumor antigens, which facilitates recognition of the tumor by the immune system. The role of caspases in melanoma is complex, and they may inhibit melanoma growth and progression. This work aims to review the current knowledge of the role of individual caspases in melanoma pathogenesis.

The establishment of immunotherapy applying immune checkpoint inhibitors (ICI) has provided an important new option for the treatment of solid malignant diseases. However, different tumor entities show dramatically different responses to this therapy. BCC responds worse to anti-PD-1 ICIs as compared to cSCC. Differential immune checkpoint expression could explain this discrepancy and, therefore, the aim of this study was to analyze activating and inhibitory immune checkpoints in cSCC and BCC tissues. Tissue microarrays of the invasive front as well as the tumor core of BCC and cSCC samples were used to evaluate PD-1, PD-L1, CD28, and CD86 expression and their topographic distribution profiles by chromogenic immunohistochemistry. QuPath was used to determine the labeling index. The expression of PD-1, PD-L1, and CD28 was significantly higher in both the tumor core and the invasive front of cSCC samples as compared to BCC (<i>p</i> < 0.001). In addition, the ratios of PD-L1/CD86 (<i>p</i> < 0.001) and CD28/CD86 (<i>p</i> < 0.001) were significantly higher in cSCC. The invasive front of both tumor entities showed higher expression levels of all immune markers compared to the tumor core in both tumor entities. The significantly higher expression of PD-1, PD-L1, and CD28 in cSCC, along with the predominance of the inhibitory ligand PD-L1 as compared to the activating CD86 in cSCC, provide a potential explanation for the better objective response rates to anti-PD-1 immunotherapy as compared to BCC. Furthermore, the predominant site of interaction between the immune system and the tumor was within the invasive front in both tumor types.

In most human tumors, the MAPK pathway is constitutively activated. Since p90RSK is downstream of MAPK, it is often hyperactive and capable of phosphorylating oncogenic substrates. We have previously shown that p90RSK phosphorylates MDM2 at S166, promoting p53 degradation in follicular thyroid carcinomas. Thus, the inhibition of p90RSK restores p53 expression, which in turn inhibits cell proliferation and promotes apoptosis. In the present study, we demonstrated that the p90RSK/MDM2/p53 pathway proved to be an excellent target in the therapy of tumors with MAPK hyperactivation. For this purpose, we selected p53wt melanoma, lung and medullary thyroid carcinoma cell lines with high activation of p90RSK. In these cell lines, we demonstrated that the p90RSK/MDM2/p53 pathway is implicated in the regulation of the cell cycle and apoptosis through p53-dependent transcriptional control of <i>p21</i> and <i>Bcl-2</i>. Furthermore, with an immunohistochemical evaluation of primary melanomas and lung tumors, which exhibit highly activated p90RSK compared to corresponding normal tissue, we demonstrated that MDM2 stabilization was associated with p90RSK phosphorylation. The results indicate that p90RSK is able to control the proliferative rate and induction of apoptosis through the regulation of p53wt levels by stabilizing MDM2 in selected tumors with constitutively activated MAPKs, making p90RSK a new attractive target for anticancer therapy.

Impaired tumor cell antigen presentation contributes significantly to immune evasion. This study identifies Berbamine hydrochloride (Ber), a compound derived from traditional Chinese medicine, as an effective inhibitor of autophagy that enhances antigen presentation in tumor cells. Ber increases MHC-I-mediated antigen presentation in melanoma cells, improving recognition and elimination by CD8<sup>+</sup> T cells. Mutation of Atg4b, which blocks autophagy, also raises MHC-I levels on the cell surface, and further treatment with Ber under these conditions does not increase MHC-I, indicating Ber's role in blocking autophagy to enhance MHC-I expression. Additionally, Ber treatment leads to the accumulation of autophagosomes, with elevated levels of LC3-II and p62, suggesting a disrupted autophagic flux. Fluorescence staining and co-localization analyses reveal that Ber likely inhibits lysosomal acidification without hindering autophagosome-lysosome fusion. Importantly, Ber treatment suppresses melanoma growth in mice and enhances CD8<sup>+</sup> T cell infiltration, supporting its therapeutic potential. Our findings demonstrate that Ber disturbs late-stage autophagic flux through abnormal lysosomal acidification, enhancing MHC-I-mediated antigen presentation and curtailing tumor immune escape.

Anaplastic lymphoma kinase (ALK) rearrangements drive most examples of epithelioid fibrous histiocytoma (EFH) and have been reported in an emerging family of receptor tyrosine kinase (RTK) fusion-positive mesenchymal neoplasms, including superficial ones described under the rubric of "superficial ALK-rearranged myxoid spindle cell neoplasm" (SAMS). Here, we describe 35 superficial tumors with SAMS morphology, which occurred in 18 females (51%) and 17 males at a median age at presentation of 39 years (range: 6 to 82 y). Most tumors occurred on the lower extremity (25 tumors; 71%), followed by upper extremity (5; 14%), trunk (3; 9%), and face (2; 6%). Nine tumors were reported to have grown slowly before presentation, including >10 years in 2 cases. Tumors occurred primarily in the dermis (32 tumors; 91%) or subcutis (3; 9%); 8 dermal tumors extended into the subcutis. Median tumor size was 1.3 cm (range: 0.5 to 8.0 cm). Clinical follow-up was available for 12 patients (34%; range: 2 mo to 21 y; median: 2.7 y), none of whom experienced metastasis. One incompletely resected tumor recurred locally at 19 months, and no other patients experienced recurrence. Histologically, tumors were characterized by bland spindle-to-ovoid cells showing whorled growth and myxoid-to-collagenous stroma. Recurrent features included an epidermal collarette (19/30; 63%), perivascular hyalinization (20/35; 57%), amianthoid collagen (14/35; 40%), and metaplastic ossification (2/35; 6%). Immunohistochemistry (IHC) demonstrated expression of ALK (24/31; 77%), CD34 (15/21; 71%), EMA (17/28; 61%), and S-100 (9/32; 28%). Eleven tumors showed hybrid morphologic features between EFH and SAMS; 9 of them (82%) showed cytomorphology typical of EFH but with whorled growth, myxoid stroma, and/or regions of spindle cell morphology. Two hybrid tumors showed sharp transitions between a region characteristic of EFH and a region characteristic of SAMS, with a concomitant sharp transition in EMA, CD34, and S-100 expression by IHC. Sequencing revealed ALK fusions in 15 of 19 tumors: 2 each with fusion partners FLNA, SQSTM1, and VCL, and 1 each with COL1A2, DCTN1, EML4, FXR1, MPRIP, PLEKHH2, PRKAR1A, SPECC1L, and TLN2. Thirteen of 14 ALK-rearranged tumors expressed ALK by IHC. Three tumors negative for ALK fusions instead harbored alternate RTK fusions (NCOA4::RET, TRIM27::RET, and VIM::NTRK3), and 1 tumor was negative for RTK alterations. CDKN2A/B deletions were found in 2 tumors with ALK fusions and both tumors with RET fusions. SAMS is on a morphologic and molecular genetic spectrum with EFH, with a similar body site distribution, frequent clinical presentation as an exophytic skin tumor, and invariably benign outcomes; we conclude that SAMS should be considered a histologic variant of EFH. Some morphologically typical examples harbor alternate RET and NTRK3 fusions, such that SAMS is not an appropriate designation for this morphologic class; instead, to highlight the clinicopathologic similarities to EFH, we propose the diagnostic term "myxoid spindle cell variant of epithelioid fibrous histiocytoma."

This case study investigates the use of a 40-gene expression profile to independently predict the risk of metastasis in an immunocompromised 75-year-old male patient with cutaneous squamous cell carcinoma of his left cheek. The patient's previous medical history included non-melanoma skin cancer. Traditional staging methods, such as those from the American Joint Committee on Cancer 8th edition and Brigham and Women's Hospital, suggested a high risk of metastasis for this patient. However, the 40-gene expression profile test identified the patient as having a low risk (Class 1 result) of metastasis within 3 years. The patient successfully underwent Mohs surgery, and pathology was notable for positive perineural invasion of large caliber nerves. This case highlights the potential of the 40-gene expression profile as an independent predictor in assessing metastatic risk compared to traditional staging methods.

Background Primary cutaneous lymphomas (PCLs) are rare diagnoses in Nepal and are not well characterized till date. Objective To evaluate clinical and pathological features of Primary cutaneous lymphomas in Nepal. Method We retrospectively reviewed outpatient and inpatient records of a dermatology referral centre of Kathmandu, Nepal for clinical and pathological findings of cases diagnosed as cutaneous lymphomas from July 2010 through July 2020. The final diagnosis was made based on 2008 World Health Organization classification and its update 2018. Result There were 12 cases of Primary cutaneous lymphomas diagnosed during this period. The age of presentation ranged from 19 years to 81 years (Mean: 53.4 years ± 21.5 years, SD). There were ten cases of cutaneous T-cell lymphoma (CTCLs) and two cases of cutaneous B- cell lymphomas (CBCLs). Among cutaneous T-cell lymphoma, there were four cases of primary cutaneous anaplastic large- cell Lymphoma (PCALCL), two cases of classic (patch/plaque) mycosis fungoides (MF), two cases of folliculotropic mycosis fungoides (FMF), and one case each of primary cutaneous aggressive epidermotropicCD8+ T-cell lymphoma and lymphomatoid papulosis. Among cutaneous B- cell lymphomas, there was one case of primary cutaneous marginal zone B- cell lymphoma, and one case of primary cutaneous follicle centre lymphoma. Most cases of MF presented at stage IB (75%), and three patients of primary cutaneous lymphomas died during this period. Conclusion Primary cutaneous lymphomas appear to be very rare in this study and presentations ranged from classic Mycoses Fungoides to aggressive T-cell lymphomas. Cutaneous T-cell lymphomas appeared to be more common than cutaneous B- cell lymphomas in this study.

MicroRNA (miRNA) is a type of short, non-coding nucleic acid molecule that plays essential roles in diagnosing and prognosing various types of cancer. MiRNA is abundantly present in skin interstitial fluid (ISF), providing real-time and localized physiological information. Hydrogel microneedle (HMN) patches enable miRNA collection in a fast, pain-free, minimally invasive, and user-friendly manner. In this study, we introduced a fluorescence-based HMN assay, namely the HMN-miR sensor, composed of methacrylated hyaluronic acid (MeHA) and a graphene oxide-probe DNA (GO.pDNA) conjugate for miR21 and miR210 detection. The HMN-miR sensor demonstrates excellent skin penetration efficiency, rapid ISF collection capability, and sufficient miRNA detection and sequence identification specificity. The HMN-miR sensor facilitates a new assay that, with further optimization, could be applied in future clinical settings. Its simple fabrication process and excellent biocompatibility give it significant potential for various clinical uses, such as personalized cancer treatment and monitoring the healing progress of burn wounds.

Noninvasive, rapid, and robust diagnostic techniques for clinical screening of tumors located in arbitrary areas of the human body are in demand. To address this challenge, we analyzed the feasibility of photoplethysmography-based angiography for assessing vascular structures within malignant and benign tumors. The proposed hardware and software were approved in a clinical study involving 30 patients with tumors located in the legs, torso, arms, and head. High-contrast and detailed vessel maps within both benign and malignant tumors were obtained. We demonstrated that capillary maps are consistent and can be interpreted using well-established dermoscopic criteria for vascular morphology. Vessel mapping provides valuable details, which may not be available in dermoscopic images and can aid in determining whether a tumor is benign or malignant. We believe that the proposed approach may become a valuable tool in the preliminary cancer diagnosis and is suitable for large-scale screening.

Heterotopic ossification (HO) is a pathological process that commonly arises following severe polytrauma, characterized by the anomalous differentiation of mesenchymal progenitor cells and resulting in the formation of ectopic bone in non-skeletal tissues. This abnormal bone growth contributes to pain and reduced mobility, especially when adjacent to a joint. Our prior observations suggested an essential role of NGF (Nerve Growth Factor)-responsive TrkA (Tropomyosin Receptor Kinase A)-expressing peripheral nerves in regulating abnormal osteochondral differentiation following tendon injury. Here, we utilized a recently developed mouse model of hip arthroplasty-induced HO to further validate the role of peripheral nerve regulation of traumatic HO. Nerve ingrowth was either modulated using a knockin transgenic animals with point mutation in TrkA, or local treatment with an FDA-approved formulation of long acting Bupivacaine which prevents peripheral nerve growth. Results demonstrate exuberant sensory and sympathetic nerve growth within the peri-articular HO site, and that both methods to reduce local innervation significantly reduced heterotopic bone formation. TrkA inhibition led to a 34% reduction in bone volume, while bupivacaine treatment resulted in a 50% decrease. Mechanistically, alterations in TGFβ and FGF signaling activation accompanied both methods of local denervation, and a shift in macrophages from M1 to M2 phenotypes was observed. In sum, these studies reinforce the observations that peripheral nerves play a role in the etiopathogenesis of HO, and that targeting local nerves represents a potential therapeutic approach for disease prevention.

Los nevos simples, también conocidos como "parches de salmón" o "marcas de la cigüeña", son marcas de nacimiento especial en algunos recién nacidos. Son muy comunes y no causan dolor.

Nevus simplex, also called a "salmon patch" or "stork bite," is a special mark that some babies are born with. It is very common and doesn't hurt.

Autologous breast reconstruction (ABR) uses a harvested tissue flap from the abdomen, posterior thigh, or buttocks to rebuild the breast postmastectomy. Identification of nerves for use in autologous sensate breast reconstruction flaps is an important surgical consideration as loss of breast sensation is a common risk of ABR. The posterior femoral cutaneous nerve (PFCN) and its branches supply sensory innervation to skin of the posterior thigh, leg, perineum, and buttocks, creating a feasible candidate for sensate profunda artery perforator (PAP) flaps for reestablishing breast sensation through ABR. This study characterized PFCN perforating branches located within the PAP flap region as compared to an anatomical landmark intersection (ALI). Twenty-three posterior thigh regions from 15 formalin-embalmed donors were dissected to the level of deep fascia to identify PFCN branches. PFCN branch diameter (mean, 1.34 ± 0.35 mm) and length (mean, 8.82 ± 5.78 mm) piercing the deep fascia were measured; branches were retro-dissected proximally to the PFCN trunk and the distance recorded (mean, 92.55 ± 38.00 mm). The distance to branch emergence from ALI (mean, 113.55 ± 19.80 mm) and from the midline of the posterior thigh (mean, 18.90 ± 11.17 mm) were calculated. Two-Tailed T-tests comparing the left and right limb of 7 donors determined bilateral, statistically significant difference between the length of branch emergence back to the main trunk of PFCN (P = .00). These findings illustrate the presence of adequate yet variable PFCN branches within the PAP flap region in regards to diameter, length, and location for use in sensate ABR.

Immune-oncology strategies are revolutionising the perioperative treatment in several tumour types. The perioperative setting of renal cell carcinoma (RCC) is an evolving field, and the advent of immunotherapy is producing significant advances.

Tissue expansion (TE) is the primary method for breast reconstruction after mastectomy. In many cases, mastectomy patients undergo radiation treatment (XR). Radiation is known to induce skin fibrosis and is one of the main causes for complications during post-mastectomy breast reconstruction. TE, on the other hand, induces a pro-regenerative response that culminates in growth of new skin. However, the combined effect of XR and TE on skin mechanics is unknown. Here we used the porcine model of TE to study the effect of radiation on skin fibrosis through biaxial testing, histological analysis, and kinematic analysis of skin deformation over time. We found that XR leads to stiffening of skin compared to control based on a shift in the transition stretch (transition between a low stiffness and an exponential stress-strain region characteristic of collagenous tissue) and an increase in the high modulus (modulus computed with stress-stretch data past the transition point). The change in transition stretch can be explained by thicker, more aligned collagen fiber bundles measured in histology images. Skin subjected to both XR+TE showed similar microstructure to controls as well as similar biaxial response, suggesting that physiological remodeling of collagen induced by TE partially counteracts pro-fibrotic XR effects. Skin growth was indirectly assessed with a kinematic approach that quantified increase in permanent area changes without reduction in thickness, suggesting production of new tissue driven by TE even in the presence of radiation treatment. Future work will focus on the detailed biological mechanisms by which TE counteracts radiation induced fibrosis. STATEMENT OF SIGNIFICANCE: Breast cancer is the most prevalent in women and its treatment often results in total breast removal (mastectomy), followed by reconstruction using tissue expanders. Radiation, which is used in about a third of breast reconstruction cases, can lead to significant complications. The timing of radiation treatment remains controversial. Radiation is known to cause immediate skin damage and long-term fibrosis. Tissue expansion leads to a pro-regenerative response involving collagen remodeling. Here we show that tissue expansion immediately prior to radiation can reduce the level of radiation-induced fibrosis. Thus, we anticipate that this new evidence will open up new avenues of investigation into how the collagen remodeling and pro-regenerative effects of tissue expansion can be leverage to prevent radiation-induced fibrosis.

Melanoma represents a critical clinical challenge due to its unfavorable outcomes. This type of skin cancer exhibits unique adaptability to the brain microenvironment, but its underlying molecular mechanisms are poorly understood. Recent findings have suggested that melanoma brain metastases (MBM) may share biological processes similar to those found in various neurodegenerative diseases. To further characterize MBM development, we explore the relationship between the transcriptional profiles of MBM and the neurodegenerative diseases Alzheimer's disease, Parkinson's disease, and multiple sclerosis. We take an in silico approach to unveil a neurodegenerative signature of MBM when compared to melanoma non-brain metastasis (53 dysregulated genes enriched in 11 functional terms, such as associated terms to the extracellular matrix and development) and to non tumor-bearing brain controls (195 dysregulated genes, mostly involved in development and cell differentiation, chromatin remodeling and nucleosome organization, and translation). Two genes, ITGA10 and DNAJC6, emerged as key potential markers being dysregulated in both scenarios. Lastly, we developed an open source, user-friendly web tool (https://bioinfo.cipf.es/metafun-mbm/) that allows interactive exploration of the complete results.

Hair-related disorders are currently widely concerned issues for not only the scientific society but also the public attentions. Microneedle-based drug delivery system has been regarded as a promise hair follicle-targeted drug delivery approach, largely because they can effectively penetrate the stratum corneum barrier and deliver drugs to hair follicles within dermis. However, the currently reported microneedles for treating hair-related disorders usually rely on rigid backings, showing poor adaptability to the curved scalp and thereby restricting their usability for hair follicles targeted drug delivery. To this end, this study utilized sodium alginate and polyvinylpyrrolidone to construct a scalp-curvature-conforming microneedle with flexible backing. Subsequently, Psoralea corylifolia extract (PE) was loaded into the microneedles to investigate its capability in delivering PE to the hair follicle site for treating leukotrichia associated with vitiligo. These PE-loaded microneedles can effectively conform to the curvature of skin, enhancing the efficiency of microneedle insertion and ensuring stable drug delivery. Moreover, animal studies demonstrate that the PE loaded microneedles can effectively penetrate the stratum corneum, benefiting the drug delivery to hair follicles located site, and consequently showing a successful inhibition of hair graying. In summary, the present study reports a design and preparation of scalp-curvature-conforming microneedle. This design may offer a potential solution for efficient drug delivery using microneedles to the curved skin.

Niosomes are essentially multilamellar or unilamellar vesicles based on non-ionic surfactants. They consist of surfactant macromolecules arranged in a bilayer, which surrounds an aqueous solute solution. Amphiphilic, biodegradable, biocompatible, and environmentally friendly materials are utilized for encapsulating the drugs in vesicles that enhance the bioavailability, therapeutic efficacy, penetration of drug via the skin, and drug release in a controlled or sustained manner, and are employed to target the anticipated area via modifying composition that acts to minimize undesirable effects. With cholesterol as the lipid, Tween 20, Span 60, and Tween 60 are mostly employed as surfactants. Many medications, including Glibenclamide for diabetic kidney disease and anti-cancer medications including gemcitabine, cisplatin, and nintedanib, have been effectively encapsulated into niosomes. The traditional approach for creating niosomes at the lab scale is a thin film hydration process. The ideal ratio between primary components as well as critical manufacturing process parameters is key component in creating the best niosomal formulations with substantial drug loading and nanometric form. Utilizing the Design of Experiments (DoE) and Response Surface Methodology (RSM) in conjunction with Quality by design (QbD) is essential for comprehending how these variables interact both during lab preparation and during the scale-up process. Research on the development of anti-aging cosmetics is being done by Loreal. Niosomal preparations like Lancome are sold in stores. An overview of niosomes, penetration mechanisms, and quality by design from laboratory to industrial scale is provided in this article.

Cancer of the skin represents a challenge for radiological protection, as it is very common and involves the largest organ of the human body, which is exposed to environmental stress, including ionizing radiation. The most common subtypes, basal cell carcinoma (BCC) and squamous cell carcinoma (SCC) have very low mortality. Current consideration of skin cancer in radiological protection is mainly based on data from the 1990s, which indicate that BCC may be induced by ionizing radiation, SCC is only weakly associated with ionizing radiation, and malignant melanoma (MM) is not considered as ionizing radiation-induced. In a semi-systematic review of the evidence between 1990 and 2023, we snowballed 19 index articles. We identified 29 articles with information on a potential dose-response relationship between skin cancer and ionizing radiation exposure and assessed the evidence for a causal association. Exposure situations included a-bomb survivors, therapeutic and occupational exposure (airlines, nuclear and medical facilities) and residents exposed to radon. There is currently no epidemiological evidence that MM or SCC are caused by ionizing radiation. The only skin cancer type with evidence for a causal relationship is BCC, and evidence is limited to exposures above 0.5 Gy with a wide range of risk levels per dose. Thus, ionizing radiation-inducible skin cancer refers to BCC only and only at levels of exposure beyond those experienced by the vast majority of people exposed today.

Grover disease is an acquired epidermal blistering disorder in which keratinocytes lose intercellular connections. While its pathologic features are well-defined, its etiology remains unclear and it lacks any FDA-approved therapy. Interestingly, Grover disease was a common adverse event in clinical trials for cancer using B-RAF inhibitors, but it remained unknown how B-RAF blockade compromised skin integrity. Here we identified ERK hyperactivation as a key driver of Grover disease pathology. We leveraged a fluorescent biosensor to confirm that B-RAF inhibitors, dabrafenib and vemurafenib, paradoxically activated ERK in human keratinocytes and organotypic epidermis, disrupting cell-cell junctions and weakening epithelial integrity. Consistent with clinical data showing that concomitant MEK blockade prevents Grover disease in patients receiving B-RAF inhibitors, we found that MEK inhibition suppressed ERK and rescued cohesion of B-RAF-inhibited keratinocytes. Validating these results, we demonstrated ERK hyperactivation in patient biopsies from vemurafenib-induced Grover disease, but also from spontaneous Grover disease, revealing a common etiology for both. Finally, in line with our recent identification of ERK hyperactivation in Darier disease, a genetic disorder with identical pathology to Grover disease, our studies uncovered that the pathogenic mechanisms of these two diseases converge on ERK signaling and support MEK inhibition as a therapeutic strategy. .

The increasing prevalence of obesity necessitates innovative approaches to better understand this health crisis, particularly given its strong connection to chronic diseases such as diabetes, cancer, and cardiovascular conditions. Monitoring dietary behavior is crucial for designing effective interventions that help decrease obesity prevalence and promote healthy lifestyles. However, traditional dietary tracking methods are limited by participant burden and recall bias. Exploring microlevel eating activities, such as meal duration and chewing frequency, in addition to eating episodes, is crucial due to their substantial relation to obesity and disease risk.

Immunosuppression after solid organ transplantation is associated with an increased risk of keratinocyte carcinoma (KC). Despite its established morbidity, KC risk in liver transplant (LT) recipients is understudied, including the contribution of immunosuppression regimen and latitude. A retrospective cohort of 9,966 adult first LT alone recipients alive with their native allograft at 1-year post-LT without prior KC between 2007 and 2016 were identified using linked data from the Organ Procurement and Transplantation Network and Medicare administrative claims. The primary exposures were immunosuppression regimen and latitude of residence. The primary outcome was incident, de novo KC occurring at least 1-year after LT. Adjusted Cox regression analysis stratified by transplant center was used in all analyses. The cohort was 63.4% male, 70.2% White and with median age 61 years (interquartile range, IQR, 54-66) at transplant. Calcineurin inhibitor (CNI) with anti-metabolite combination was independently associated with incident KC when measured as intention-to-treat (adjusted hazard ratio (aHR) 1.21 vs. CNI monotherapy, 95% CI 1.02-1.43, p = 0.026), in a time-updating as-treated analysis (aHR 1.61, 95% CI 1.34-1.93; p < 0.001) and when measured as cumulative exposure (aHR 1.13 per 6-month increase, 95% CI: 1.02-1.33; p = 0.027). More southern latitude of residence was also independently associated with incident KC with an aHR of 1.26 per 5°N decrease towards the Equator (95% CI: 1.08-1.47, p = 0.003). We demonstrate independent effects of CNI with antiM immunosuppression regimen and latitude of residence on the risk of post-LT KC, which will better inform screening practices and immunosuppression management.

Immunosuppression after solid organ transplantation is associated with an increased risk of keratinocyte carcinoma (KC). Despite its established morbidity, KC risk in liver transplant (LT) recipients is understudied, including the contribution of immunosuppression regimen and latitude. A retrospective cohort of 9,966 adult first LT alone recipients alive with their native allograft at 1-year post-LT without prior KC between 2007 and 2016 were identified using linked data from the Organ Procurement and Transplantation Network and Medicare administrative claims. The primary exposures were immunosuppression regimen and latitude of residence. The primary outcome was incident, de novo KC occurring at least 1-year after LT. Adjusted Cox regression analysis stratified by transplant center was used in all analyses. The cohort was 63.4% male, 70.2% White and with median age 61 years (interquartile range, IQR, 54-66) at transplant. Calcineurin inhibitor (CNI) with anti-metabolite combination was independently associated with incident KC when measured as intention-to-treat (adjusted hazard ratio (aHR) 1.21 vs. CNI monotherapy, 95% CI 1.02-1.43, p = 0.026), in a time-updating as-treated analysis (aHR 1.61, 95% CI 1.34-1.93; p < 0.001) and when measured as cumulative exposure (aHR 1.13 per 6-month increase, 95% CI: 1.02-1.33; p = 0.027). More southern latitude of residence was also independently associated with incident KC with an aHR of 1.26 per 5°N decrease towards the Equator (95% CI: 1.08-1.47, p = 0.003). We demonstrate independent effects of CNI with antiM immunosuppression regimen and latitude of residence on the risk of post-LT KC, which will better inform screening practices and immunosuppression management.

Although the largest increase in melanoma incidence is observed for localised melanoma, little research has been done on its impact. Despite favourable prognoses and relatively short treatment trajectories, diagnosis and treatment may significantly impact life post-treatment. Therefore, the aim of this study was to gain an in-depth understanding of stage I and II melanoma survivors' experiences resuming life after treatment and their associated survivorship care (SSC) needs. A qualitative focus group study was conducted with 18 stage I or II melanoma survivors, divided over three focus groups with 6 survivors each. Transcripts were analysed through thorough thematic content analysis, using multiple phases of coding. In resuming life, survivors experienced profound initial impacts of disease and treatment, fed by a perceived lack of knowledge and underestimation of melanoma. They faced unexpected physical and emotional effects post-surgery, experiencing mixed feelings from relief to fear and uncertainty. Survivors felt misunderstood, had to adjust their lives, and managed personal and external expectations while experiencing a positive shift in life perspective, leading to a notable difference in life before and after cancer. In terms of SSC needs, survivors stressed the need for tailored information, accessible resources, patient-centered follow-up, and supportive care addressing the total impact of disease and treatment. These findings highlight the importance of improving melanoma awareness and providing holistic SSC not only to advanced, but also to localised melanoma survivors. A tailored survivorship care plan could facilitate access to information and supportive care, helping patients resume their lives.

Hypophysitis occurs in up to 10% of patients treated with immune-checkpoint inhibitors (ICIs). MRI shows no abnormalities of the pituitary gland in one third of patients. A delayed diagnosis increases the risk for life-threatening adrenal crisis, underscoring the need for early detection. This study evaluates the diagnostic accuracy FDG PET/CT in detecting ICI-induced hypophysitis in a cohort of melanoma patients.

Hypophysitis occurs in up to 10% of patients treated with immune-checkpoint inhibitors (ICIs). MRI shows no abnormalities of the pituitary gland in one third of patients. A delayed diagnosis increases the risk for life-threatening adrenal crisis, underscoring the need for early detection. This study evaluates the diagnostic accuracy FDG PET/CT in detecting ICI-induced hypophysitis in a cohort of melanoma patients.

Although most melanomas are diagnosed in early stages of the disease, a significant percentage show metastases from the beginning or during follow-up. The most common route is lymphatic, while hematogenous spread is less frequent. The most common site for metastases is the skin itself, although they can also occur in other organs, including the digestive tract, where the small intestine is the most frequently affected organ (2). We present the case of a 48-year-old woman with a history of superficial spreading melanoma of the cervical region, surgically treated 7 years prior and in remission, who presented with painless jaundice of 48 hours duration, without fever or other infectious focus. Upon arrival at the Emergency Department, she had a direct bilirubin of 7.9 mg/dL and a CRP of 140 mg/L. An abdominal ultrasound was performed, revealing biliary tract dilation without apparent cause, with secondary, apparently tumoral involvement of the gallbladder. During hospitalization, the study was completed with an abdominal CT scan, visualizing hyperdense lesions with a polypoid appearance in the gallbladder, in addition to the aforementioned intra- and extrahepatic biliary tract dilation. The cause was then identified as a hyperdense mass in the duodenum affecting the papilla, along with two other small hypervascular polypoid lesions in the second portion of the duodenum. With these findings, an ERCP was performed, revealing a papilla with a "pregnant" appearance, compatible with ampulloma, in addition to duodenal pseudopolyps of nonspecific appearance. The anatomopathological analysis was compatible with duodenal metastases from melanoma. Melanoma is the cancer with the highest mortality rate, and the gastrointestinal tract is a typical location for metastases, only surpassed by the skin itself and the lungs, especially the small intestine, although not the duodenum, where they are found in only 12% of cases (4). In this case, the diagnosis was complicated by the endoscopic appearance of the lesion, as the characteristic features are pigmented, blackish lesions typical of melanoma. As seen in the image, these lesions had an erythematous and pseudo-inflammatory appearance, so for diagnosis and treatment, it was essential to consider the history of the disease to perform an adequate anatomopathological diagnosis.

Complex regional pain syndrome is chronic pain condition involving hyperalgesia and allodynia of extremities. The pathophysiology of CRPS is thought to be combination of different factors that take place at the time of initial injury. Sixty two years female presented to us with severe leg pain after intravenous cannulation during her spine surgery and associated with hyperalgesia and allodynia. On examination, there was shinny skin and nail changes on right leg and significant surface temperature difference between two legs. Patients were managed conservatively with patient education, physical therapy, pharmacological management, and psychological therapy with diagnosis of complex regional pain syndrome. Diagnosis is a clinical finding based on the Budapest diagnostic criteria. Early treatment with multidisciplinary approach to pain management is necessary to achieve complete recovery and prevent damage. Complex regional pain syndrome is life altering condition but understanding the etiological factors helps us to an early diagnosis and a better implementation of treatment.

Honey has been reported to have a range of biological activities including antimicrobial, immunomodulatory, and wound healing effects. Indeed, medical-grade honey is currently used in hospitals for the clinical management of wound infections. Honey is also of scientific interest for its therapeutic effects on other dermatological disorders such as atopic dermatitis, rosacea, and skin cancer. Recent studies have uncovered that honey contains a range of phytochemicals including flavonoids, dicarboxylic acids, coumarins, and phenolic acids. In this review, PubMed was used to search the scientific literature on the biological properties of honey phytochemicals in relation to dermatological disorders and to evaluate their potential as bioactive agents, drugs, or cosmeceuticals for the treatment of skin disease. The review revealed that phytochemicals found in honey have antimicrobial, anti-inflammatory, antiaging, antioxidant, anticancer, depigmenting, photoprotective, wound healing, and skin barrier enhancing properties. Although further high-quality studies are required to establish clinical efficacy, these findings suggest that honey phytochemicals may have the potential to be used as bioactive agents for the management of a range of dermatological disorders including wounds, psoriasis, atopic dermatitis, vitiligo, rosacea, and skin cancer.

Nanofibrous scaffolds have emerged as promising candidates for localized drug delivery systems in the treatment of cutaneous cancers. In this study, we prepared an electrospun nanofibrous scaffold incorporating 5-fluorouracil (5-FU) and etoposide (ETP) for chemotherapy targeting melanoma cutaneous cancer. The scaffold was composed of polyvinyl alcohol (PVA) and chitosan (CS), prepared via the electrospinning process and loaded with the chemotherapeutic agents. We conducted relevant physicochemical characterizations, assessed cytotoxicity, and evaluated apoptosis against melanoma A375 cells. The prepared 5-FU/ETP co-loaded PVA/CS scaffold exhibited nanofibers (NFs) with an average diameter of 321 ± 61 nm, defect-free and homogenous morphology. FTIR spectroscopy confirmed successful incorporation of chemotherapeutics into the scaffold. Additionally, the scaffold demonstrated a hydrophilic surface, proper mechanical strength, high porosity, and efficient liquid absorption capacity. Notably, sustained and controlled drug release was observed from the nanofibrous scaffold. Furthermore, the scaffold significantly increased cytotoxicity (95%) and apoptosis (74%) in A375 melanoma cells. Consequently, the prepared 5-FU/ETP co-loaded PVA/CS nanofibrous scaffold holds promise as a valuable system for localized eradication of cutaneous melanoma tumors and mitigation of adverse drug reactions associated with chemotherapy.

The most common form of primary skin cancer is basal cell carcinoma (BCC). Pigmented BCC is a less common clinical presentation in BCC spectrum, where the tumour contains pigment. Some cases can exhibit morphological features that mimic those of nodular melanoma (NM). We present a woman in her late 40's who had an asymptomatic firm, hyperpigmented nodule on the right cheek resembling pigmented NM. Dermoscopy showed diffuse hyperpigmentation with irregular shiny surface and a solitary haemorrhagic crust. Melanoacanthoma and irritated seborrheic keratosis were the other differentials considered. Punch biopsy showed features of trichoepithelioma initially, subsequent complete excision was suggestive of pigmented BCC.Mortality related to BCC is rare, whereas NM is aggressive. Hence, clinicians need to be aware of this rare presentation of BCC as a hyperpigmented nodule, particularly in dark-skinned individuals. Timely differentiation between melanoma and BCC is crucial given their differing prognosis.

The proteasomal system is becoming a target for the treatment of several diseases, especially in cancer therapy. The present study aims to develop a novel copper complex that inhibits the proteasome in skin squamous cell carcinoma. New molecules based on the copper complex were synthesized for the first time to assess their potential as proteasome inhibitors, specifically targeting squamous cell carcinoma induced by 7,12-dimethylbenz(a)anthracene (DMBA) in mouse models. Fourier Transform Infrared (FTIR), X-ray diffraction (XRD), scanning electron microscopy (SEM), nuclear magnetic resonance (NMR), and energy dispersive X-ray analysis (EDX) were carried out to characterize this new copper complex. Notably, the presence of a papilloma (skin tumor) was confirmed by histopathological analysis. Subsequent investigation included the quantification of proteasome levels using a sandwich ELISA test, and the catalytic activity of the 20S proteasome was determined by measuring the fluorescence emitted after the cleavage of 7-amino-4-methylcoumarin (AMC). Hence, X-ray crystallography indicates that all Cu atoms are five-coordinated in a square-pyramidal configuration and biological activity of copper Schiff base complex, which exhibits high proteasome inhibitory activities with particular selectivity of β5 subunit. The pharmacokinetic properties (ADMET) of the copper complex named Cu(L1) showed encouraging results with very low toxicity, distribution, and absorption. Structure-activity relationship (SAR) information obtained from Cu(L1) demonstrated its selectivity and potent inhibition for β5 subunit. In this regard, this copper complex has emerged as a novel therapy for skin cancer.

Radiotherapy-Induced Skin Injury (RISI) is radiation damage to normal skin tissue that primarily occurs during tumor Radiotherapy and occupational exposure. The risk of RISI is high due to the fact that the skin is not only the first body organ that ionizing radiation comes into contact with, but it is also highly sensitive to it, especially the basal cell layer and capillaries. Typical clinical manifestations of RISI include erythema, dry desquamation, moist desquamation, and ulcers, which have been established to significantly impact patient care and cancer treatment. Notably, our current understanding of RISI's pathological mechanisms and signaling pathways is inadequate, and no standard treatments have been established. Radiation-induced oxidative stress, inflammatory responses, fibrosis, apoptosis, and cellular senescence are among the known mechanisms that interact and promote disease progression. Additionally, radiation can damage all cellular components and induce genetic and epigenetic changes, which play a crucial role in the occurrence and progression of skin injury. A deeper understanding of these mechanisms and pathways is crucial for exploring the potential therapeutic targets for RISI. Therefore, in this review, we summarize the key mechanisms and potential treatment methods for RISI, offering a reference for future research and development of treatment strategies.

When dysregulated, skin fibrosis can lead to a multitude of pathologies. We provide a framework for understanding the wide clinical spectrum, mechanisms, and management of cutaneous fibrosis encompassing a variety of matrix disorders, fibrohistiocytic neoplasms, injury-induced scarring, and autoimmune scleroses. Underlying such entities are common mechanistic pathways that leverage morphogenic signaling, immune activation, and mechanotransduction to modulate fibroblast function. In light of the limited array of available treatments for cutaneous fibrosis, scientific insights have opened new therapeutic and investigative avenues for conditions that still lack effective interventions.

Currently, wide local excision is recommended after the primary excision of cutaneous melanomas. The definition of margins for wide local excision indicated by the guidelines has remained unchanged over the years, although the reported indications are derived from fairly dated studies in which melanomas tended to be thicker or in advanced stages at diagnosis. This study aimed to retrospectively evaluate the usefulness of wide local excision for local and general control of the disease and to identify patients who had benefited from the wide local excision procedure in terms of prognosis improvement. This retrospective observational study was conducted on patients who had undergone surgery for melanoma at a single institution. The primary endpoint was progression-free survival after wide local excision in patients with or without residual melanoma. The secondary endpoint was to evaluate which patients' demographic features and melanoma histological data were associated with residual melanoma after wide local excision. In the univariate model, melanoma-positive wide local excision resulted in the worst progression-free survival; however, this association was not confirmed in the multivariate model. The results also showed that Breslow thickness was the only factor associated with an increased risk of metastasis to the wide local excision area. According to the receiver operating characteristic analysis, the optimum cutoff value of Breslow's thickness to predict a tumor-positive wide local excision was 2.31 mm for males and 2.4 mm for females.

Currently, wide local excision is recommended after the primary excision of cutaneous melanomas. The definition of margins for wide local excision indicated by the guidelines has remained unchanged over the years, although the reported indications are derived from fairly dated studies in which melanomas tended to be thicker or in advanced stages at diagnosis. This study aimed to retrospectively evaluate the usefulness of wide local excision for local and general control of the disease and to identify patients who had benefited from the wide local excision procedure in terms of prognosis improvement. This retrospective observational study was conducted on patients who had undergone surgery for melanoma at a single institution. The primary endpoint was progression-free survival after wide local excision in patients with or without residual melanoma. The secondary endpoint was to evaluate which patients' demographic features and melanoma histological data were associated with residual melanoma after wide local excision. In the univariate model, melanoma-positive wide local excision resulted in the worst progression-free survival; however, this association was not confirmed in the multivariate model. The results also showed that Breslow thickness was the only factor associated with an increased risk of metastasis to the wide local excision area. According to the receiver operating characteristic analysis, the optimum cutoff value of Breslow's thickness to predict a tumor-positive wide local excision was 2.31 mm for males and 2.4 mm for females.

<b><i>Background:</i></b> Lymphedema is a common breast cancer side effect, with an average incidence of 30%. The gold standard conservative treatment for lymphedema is complex decongestive therapy (CDT), which includes manual lymphatic drainage, compression therapy, skin care, and exercise. Lymphovenular anastomosis (LVA) is a microsurgical technique that intends to redirect excess lymphatic fluid to the venous circulation; this procedure is usually performed when conservative treatment fails. Therefore, the objective of this study is to evaluate the effectiveness of LVA and CDT for the treatment of breast cancer-related lymphedema (BCRL). <b><i>Methods and Results:</i></b> The search was performed in CENTRAL, MEDLINE, Embase, PsycINFO, SCOPUS, and LILACS. Inclusion criteria were (1) population: women with BCRL; (2) intervention: treated with LVA and CDT; and (3) outcome: primary outcome was lymphedema reduction. Secondary outcome was quality of life. Risk of bias and quality of study reporting were also assessed. The search found 3872 articles, with 5 articles meeting the PICO (population, intervention, comparison, outcomes) criteria, 4 pre-post studies, and one observational cohort study. The total sample included 2763 patients. Follow-up was variable. The follow-up varies from 7.8 to 120 months, with an average of 35 months. Lymphedema reduction was obtained in the five studies. <b><i>Conclusion:</i></b> The present systematic review suggests that for patients with lymphedema secondary to breast cancer, the combination of both treatments is effective in reducing the size of the limb and improving quality of life. Low-quality evidence was found for both limb circumference reduction and quality of life. Additional research effort is needed to reduce bias and improve the quality of evidence, in order to better inform clinical practice and enhance the care and well-being of patients with BCRL.

<b><i>Background:</i></b> Lymphedema is a common breast cancer side effect, with an average incidence of 30%. The gold standard conservative treatment for lymphedema is complex decongestive therapy (CDT), which includes manual lymphatic drainage, compression therapy, skin care, and exercise. Lymphovenular anastomosis (LVA) is a microsurgical technique that intends to redirect excess lymphatic fluid to the venous circulation; this procedure is usually performed when conservative treatment fails. Therefore, the objective of this study is to evaluate the effectiveness of LVA and CDT for the treatment of breast cancer-related lymphedema (BCRL). <b><i>Methods and Results:</i></b> The search was performed in CENTRAL, MEDLINE, Embase, PsycINFO, SCOPUS, and LILACS. Inclusion criteria were (1) population: women with BCRL; (2) intervention: treated with LVA and CDT; and (3) outcome: primary outcome was lymphedema reduction. Secondary outcome was quality of life. Risk of bias and quality of study reporting were also assessed. The search found 3872 articles, with 5 articles meeting the PICO (population, intervention, comparison, outcomes) criteria, 4 pre-post studies, and one observational cohort study. The total sample included 2763 patients. Follow-up was variable. The follow-up varies from 7.8 to 120 months, with an average of 35 months. Lymphedema reduction was obtained in the five studies. <b><i>Conclusion:</i></b> The present systematic review suggests that for patients with lymphedema secondary to breast cancer, the combination of both treatments is effective in reducing the size of the limb and improving quality of life. Low-quality evidence was found for both limb circumference reduction and quality of life. Additional research effort is needed to reduce bias and improve the quality of evidence, in order to better inform clinical practice and enhance the care and well-being of patients with BCRL.

Epithelial chemosensory cells in hollow organs, also known as tuft cells, were implicated in tumorigenesis, including a tuft cell-like small cell lung carcinoma. Expression of the POU2F3 transcription factor is a marker of tuft cell lineage. However, tuft cell development, differentiation, and proliferation are controlled by the expression of the complex formed by POU2F3 and POU2AF2 or POU2AF3 transcriptional coactivators. A cohort of epithelial (n=6064) and mesenchymal/neuroectodermal (n=2730) tumors was screened for POU2F3 expression by immunohistochemistry. Variable immunoreactivity ranging from diffuse to scattered positive cells was found in ∼12.4% of epithelial and 4.6% of mesenchymal/neuroectodermal tumors. Cases with predominantly diffuse or patchy POU2F3 positivity representing various types of malignant tumors (n=43) were selected for further study, including POU2AF2 immunohistochemistry. Thirteen of 15 tumors with neuroendocrine differentiation originating from the lung, colon, head and neck, skin, and bladder revealed diffuse POU2F3 positivity. Most of those tumors (n=9) co-expressed POU2AF2, usually extensively. Seven squamous and basal cell carcinomas from the oral cavity, skin, lung, and thymus with diffuse POU2F3 immunostaining except one, lacked POU2AF2 expression. Other variably POU2F3-positive carcinomas (n=13) from the colon, pancreas, liver, kidney, testis, endometrium, ovary, and breast lacked POU2AF2 immunoreactivity. All POU2F3-positive mesenchymal and neuroectodermal tumors (n=8), including synovial sarcoma, solitary fibrous tumor, glioblastoma, Wilms tumor, and melanoma were POU2AF2-negative. POU2F3 expression is a highly sensitive but nonspecific indicator of tuft cell differentiation. Co-expression of POU2F3 and POU2AF2 appears to be a more specific marker, although it may not pinpoint tumors driven by the POU2F3-POU2AF3 complex.

Bacterial biofilms represent a significant challenge in both clinical and industrial settings because of their robust nature and resistance to antimicrobials. Biofilms are formed by microorganisms that produce an exopolysaccharide matrix, protecting function and supporting for nutrients. Among the various bacterial species capable of forming biofilms, <i>Staphylococcus epidermidis</i>, a commensal organism found on human skin and mucous membranes, has emerged as a prominent opportunistic pathogen, when introduced into the body via medical devices, such as catheters, prosthetic joints, and heart valves. The formation of biofilms by <i>S. epidermidis</i> on these surfaces facilitates colonization and provides protection against host immune responses and antibiotic therapies, leading to persistent and difficult-to-treat infections. The possible involvement of biofilms for breast oncogenesis has recently created the curiosity. This paper therefore delves into <i>S. epidermidis</i> biofilm involvement in breast cancer. <i>S. epidermidis</i> biofilms can create a sustained inflammatory environment through their metabolites and can break DNA in breast tissue, promoting cellular proliferation, angiogenesis, and genetic instability. Preventing biofilm formation primarily involves preventing bacterial proliferation using prophylactic measures and sterilization of medical devices and equipment. In cancer treatment, common modalities include chemotherapy, surgery, immunotherapy, alkylating agents, and various anticancer drugs. Understanding the relationship between anticancer drugs and bacterial biofilms is crucial, especially for those undergoing cancer treatment who may be at increased risk of bacterial infections, for improving patient outcomes. By elucidating these interactions, strategies to prevent or disrupt biofilm formation, thereby reducing the incidence of infections associated with medical devices and implants, can be identified.

A variety of tumors involve the anal canal because the anal canal forms the transition between the digestive system and the skin, and this anatomical region is made of a variety of different cells and tissues. Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) is the modality of choice for diagnosis and local staging of the anal canal and perianal neoplasms. In this pictorial review, we demonstrate the MRI anatomy of the anal canal and perianal region and display the imaging spectrum of tumors in the region along with an overview of its management. Imaging appearances of many tumorlike lesions that can cause diagnostic dilemmas are also demonstrated with pointers to differentiate between them.

Bone metastases (BM) are a common complication in advanced cancer patients, significantly contributing to morbidity and mortality due to their ability to cause pain, fractures, and spinal cord compression. Radiation therapy (RT) is vital in managing these complications by targeting metastatic lesions to ease pain, improve mobility, and reduce the risk of skeletal-related events such as fractures. Evidence supports the effectiveness of RT in pain relief, showing its ability to provide significant palliation and lessen the need for opioid painkillers, thereby enhancing the overall quality of life (QoL) for patients with BM. However, optimizing RT outcomes involves considerations such as the choice of radiation technique, dose fractionation schedules, and the integration of supportive care measures to mitigate treatment-related side effects like fatigue and skin reactions. These factors highlight the importance of personalized treatment planning tailored to individual patient needs and tumor characteristics. This mini-review aims to provide comprehensive insights into the multifaceted impacts of RT on pain management and QoL enhancement in BM patients, with implications for refining clinical practices and advancing patient care through the synthesis of findings from various studies.

Cancer remains a global health problem that requires constant research for the development of new treatment strategies. Flavonoids, a diverse group of naturally occurring polyphenolic compounds abundant in fruits, vegetables, and other plant sources, have received considerable attention for their potential anticancer properties. This review aimed to provide a comprehensive overview of the current scientific literature on five specific natural flavonoids, namely quercetin, Epigallocatechin Gallate (EGCG), kaempferol, apigenin, and curcumin that have been widely reported in numerous carcinomas and evaluate their effectiveness and mechanisms in fighting different types of cancer. Known for its antioxidant and anti-inflammatory properties, quercetin has shown promise in inhibiting cancer cells and modulating key signaling pathways. EGCG, a prominent catechin found in green tea, has been extensively studied for its ability to induce apoptosis and inhibit angiogenesis, highlighting its potential as an anticancer agent. Kaempferol has antioxidant and anti-inflammatory effects and has shown anticancer potential by modulating cellular processes involved in tumor development. Apigenin, abundant in parsley and chamomile, has been shown to exert anticancer properties by interrupting the cell cycle and inducing apoptosis in cancer cells. Curcumin has shown several anticancer effects, including inhibiting cell proliferation, inducing apoptosis, and modulating inflammatory pathways. Despite these promising findings, it is essential to recognize the complexity of cancer biology and the need for further research to clarify the precise mechanisms of action of these natural flavonoids and optimize their therapeutic applications. Furthermore, understanding flavonoids' potential synergy and interactions with traditional cancer therapies is paramount for developing effective combinatorial strategies. This review thus aimed to summarize the current knowledge on these natural flavonoids and provide insight into their potential role as an adjunctive or stand-alone therapy in the fight against breast, prostate, colon, lung, skin, ovarian, liver, and pancreatic cancer.

Cataract is a leading cause of blindness worldwide, necessitating a deeper understanding of its risk factors. We analyzed two cohorts: 1000 individuals from the general Swedish population and 933 patients who received plaque brachytherapy for uveal melanoma. Using Kaplan-Meier and cumulative incidence analyses, as well as Cox and competing risk regressions, we assessed whether there is a relationship between sex and cataract surgery. In the general population, female sex was a significant risk factor for cataract surgery, with a 10-year incidence of 16% compared to 10% for males (subdistribution hazard ratio adjusted for age, 1.35, P < 0.001). In the brachytherapy cohort, female sex was not associated with an increased incidence of cataract surgery, with a 10-year incidence of 25% versus 23% for males (HR 1.08, P = 0.61). Visual acuity at the time of cataract surgery did not significantly differ between sexes in either cohort, suggesting that differences in surgery rates are not due to health-seeking behavior or surgery assessment thresholds. These findings indicate that female sex is associated with a higher risk of cataract surgery in the general population, but not among those treated with plaque brachytherapy for uveal melanoma.

Invasion of some cancer cells into surrounding tissues requires traversing dense environments, although the precise mechanisms are unclear. In this issue of Developmental Cell, Driscoll et al. (2024) show that amoeboid melanoma cells create tunnels via bleb-driven abrasion of the extracellular matrix (ECM) without proteolytic degradation, a mechanism coined "worrying."

Juvenile xanthogranuloma (JXG) is a histiocytic neoplasm that usually presents in the skin. Rarely, extracutaneous localizations occur; the genetic drivers of this clinical variant of JXG remain incompletely characterized. We present detailed clinicopathologic and molecular data of 16 children with extracutaneous JXG and 5 adults with xanthogranulomas confined to the central nervous system (CNS) or soft tissue. Tissue samples were obtained through the Dutch Nationwide Pathology Databank and analyzed with an innovative sequencing technique capable of detecting both small genomic variants and gene rearrangements. Targetable kinase alterations were detected in 16/16 children and 1/5 adults. Alterations included CLTC::SYK fusions in 6 children and CSF1R mutations in 7 others - all below 2 years old with soft tissue tumors. One child had a CSF1R mutation and MRC1::PDGFRB fusion. Most were treated surgically, although spontaneous regression occurred in 1/6 with CLTC::SYK and 2/7 with CSF1R mutations - underscoring that treatment is not always necessary. Tumors with CLTC::SYK fusions generally lacked Touton giant cells, but exhibited many other histologic features of JXG and concordant methylation profiles. Using multispectral immunofluorescence, phosphorylated-SYK expression was localized to CD163+ histiocytes; tumors with CLTC::SYK fusions also demonstrated mTOR activation, Cyclin D1 expression, and variable phosphorylated-ERK expression. BRAFV600E was detected in 1 child and 1 adult with CNS xanthogranulomas; both responded to BRAF inhibition. Finally, a TPM3::NTRK1 fusion or MAP2K1 deletion were detected in 2 children with systemic JXG who experienced spontaneous disease regression. This study advances the molecular understanding of histiocytic neoplasms and may guide diagnostics and clinical management.

Deep inferior epigastric artery perforator (DIEP) flaps remain the gold standard of autologous breast reconstruction. However, the surgical technique entails a steeper learning curve and typically requires a higher mean surgical time, in part due to the time and effort involved in physical localization of appropriate perforators at the time of surgery. This is typically performed using Doppler ultrasound, and is a potentially challenging and time-consuming task in the hands of an untrained operator. In order to mitigate these challenges, ease time pressures, promote efficient utilization of our operating theatres and improve surgical outcomes, our institution routinely performs skin-marking in advance at the Breast Radiology department. In this article, we describe our technique and experience with the procedure.

Radiation dermatitis (RD) is a painful side effect of radiation therapy (RT). The objective of this analysis was to investigate the validity and reliability of the Skin Symptom Assessment (SSA) questionnaire in evaluating the severity of patient- and clinician-reported outcomes for RD in breast cancer patients by comparing it to a validated assessment tool, the Radiation-Induced Skin Reaction Assessment Scale (RISRAS) questionnaire.

In melanoma, carcinoma-associated fibroblasts (CAFs) are important cellular components in the tumour microenvironment due to their potential to promote tumour growth and metastatic spread of malignant cells. Melanoma cells have the ability to affect non-tumour cells in the microenvironment by releasing extracellular vesicles (EVs). The mechanisms responsible for reprogramming normal dermal fibroblasts (NHDFs) into CAFs remain incompletely understood. However, it is likely thought to be mediated by melanoma-specific miRNAs, which are transported by EVs derived from melanoma cells. Therefore, we wondered if one of the most enriched miRNAs in EVs secreted by melanoma cells, miR-92b-3p, is involved in the conversion of normal fibroblasts into CAFs. We observed that melanoma cell-derived EVs indeed delivered miR-92b-3p into NHDFs and that its accumulation correlated with CAF formation, as demonstrated by enhanced expression of CAF marker genes and increased proliferation and migration. Overexpression of miR-92b-3p in NHDFs revealed similar results, while EVs deficient of miR-92b-3p did not induce a CAF phenotype. As a target we identified PTEN, whose repression led to increased expression of CAF markers. We thus provide a novel pathway of intercellular communication by which melanoma cells control the transformation of CAFs by virtue of EV-transported miRNAs.

Various forms of oral involvement have been reported in patients with neurofibromatosis 1 (NF1). Here, we analyze register-based associations between NF1 and hospital visits related to oral infections. The Finnish NF1 cohort encompasses all individuals with verified NF1 who have visited the Finnish central and university hospitals in 1987-2011. The Finnish Care Register for Health Care allowed the follow-up of 1349 individuals with NF1, their 1894 siblings without NF1, and 13,870 matched controls for diagnoses related to oral infections in 1998-2014. We observed clearly increased hazards for hospital visits associated with dental caries (ICD-10 K02; NF1 vs. controls, hazard ratio [HR] 4.42, 95% CI 3.23-6.04), diseases of pulp and periapical tissues (K04; HR 3.85, 95% CI 2.68-5.54), and gingivitis and periodontal diseases (K05; HR 3.63, 95% CI 2.37-5.56). In contrast, hospital visits related to diseases of salivary glands (K11), and stomatitis and related lesions (K12) did not show significantly increased hazard in NF1 compared with the controls or the non-NF1 siblings. In conclusion, the findings suggest that hospital visits related to oral infections are relatively common among individuals with NF1. The results highlight the need for early detection, proactive prevention, and timely treatment of oral infections in individuals with NF1.

Various forms of oral involvement have been reported in patients with neurofibromatosis 1 (NF1). Here, we analyze register-based associations between NF1 and hospital visits related to oral infections. The Finnish NF1 cohort encompasses all individuals with verified NF1 who have visited the Finnish central and university hospitals in 1987-2011. The Finnish Care Register for Health Care allowed the follow-up of 1349 individuals with NF1, their 1894 siblings without NF1, and 13,870 matched controls for diagnoses related to oral infections in 1998-2014. We observed clearly increased hazards for hospital visits associated with dental caries (ICD-10 K02; NF1 vs. controls, hazard ratio [HR] 4.42, 95% CI 3.23-6.04), diseases of pulp and periapical tissues (K04; HR 3.85, 95% CI 2.68-5.54), and gingivitis and periodontal diseases (K05; HR 3.63, 95% CI 2.37-5.56). In contrast, hospital visits related to diseases of salivary glands (K11), and stomatitis and related lesions (K12) did not show significantly increased hazard in NF1 compared with the controls or the non-NF1 siblings. In conclusion, the findings suggest that hospital visits related to oral infections are relatively common among individuals with NF1. The results highlight the need for early detection, proactive prevention, and timely treatment of oral infections in individuals with NF1.

High-frequency ultrasonography (> 20 MHz) has allowed for preoperative measurement of melanoma thickness and thus a one-step surgery strategy. The potential benefits of one-step surgery to patients remain unexplored. From June 2022 to August 2023, 2 dermatologists conducted semi-structured individual interviews with patients who had undergone HFUS examination allowing the choice for one-step surgery (group A) and with patients who had had standard two-step surgery (group B). Analysis of interviews with 21 patients (age range 31-81 years) revealed 5 main themes: (a) understanding the diagnosis, highlighting the significance of clear and comprehensive medical explanations; (b) personal factors considered in treatment decisions, including preferences for minimizing surgical procedures; (c) making choices, bearing responsibility, thus showcasing different levels of patient involvement in decision-making; (d) high- frequency ultrasonography reassurance emphasizing the role of medical reassurance, and (e) patient satisfaction, discussing surgical outcomes and the decision-making process. The majority of participants expressed a clear preference for one-step surgery, perceived as a pragmatic and fast surgical strategy while minimizing interventions. In conclusion, the results emphasize the importance of patient-centred care. These insights can guide improved preoperative consultations and enhance shared decision-making between healthcare professionals and patients regarding melanoma treatment strategies.

Hidradenitis suppurativa (HS) is a chronic inflammatory skin condition characterized by painful nodules, abscesses, and scarring, predominantly affecting intertriginous regions and it is often underdiagnosed. This study aimed to utilize single cell RNA and cell-surface protein sequencing (CITE-Seq) to delineate the immune composition of circulating cells in Hidradenitis suppurativa (HS) peripheral blood compared to healthy controls. CITE-Seq was used to analyze the gene and protein expression profiles of peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMCs) from 9 HS and 29 healthy controls. The study identified significant differences cell composition between HS patients and healthy controls, including increased proportions of CD14+ and CD16+ monocytes, cDC2, plasmablasts, and proliferating CD4+ T cells in HS patients. Differential expression analysis revealed upregulation of inflammatory markers such as TNF, <i>IL1B</i>, and <i>NF-κB</i> in monocytes, as well as chemokines and cell adhesion molecules involved in immune cell recruitment and tissue infiltration. Pathway enrichment analysis highlighted the involvement of IL-17, IL-26 and TNF signaling pathways in HS pathogenesis. Machine learning identified key markers for diagnostics and therapeutic development. The findings also support the potential for machine learning models to aid in the diagnosis of HS based on immune cell markers. These insights may inform future therapeutic strategies targeting specific immune pathways in HS.

Liposarcoma is a rare primitive mesenchymal tumor, developed at the expense of adipose tissue and with a preferential location in the thigh. We report an observation of liposarcoma in the buttock. A 56-year-old man, presented with a tumor of the right buttock for 2 years. Examination revealed an inflammatory, ulcerated tumor in the upper-external quadrant of the right buttock, measuring about 8 cm. Bilateral inguinal adenopathies were associated. The diagnostic hypotheses were: a squamous cell carcinoma, a cutaneous lymphoma, and cutaneous metastases. An anatomical examination confirmed the diagnosis of myxoid round-cell liposarcoma. The extension work-up appeared compatible with secondary pleuropulmonary, hepatic, cutaneous, and lymph node neoplastic localizations. The patient was treated with chemotherapy with the Adriamycin-carboplatin protocol. The evolution was rapidly fatal after a few weeks after the first course of chemotherapy. It should be evoked in front of any ulcerated tumor of the buttock.

Lung transplantation (LTx) is a well-known treatment for end-stage lung disease. This study aimed to report the incidence of cancer after LTx and long-term outcome among lung transplant recipients with a pretransplant diagnosis of cancer. Patients who underwent LTx between 1990-2016 were included in the study. Detection of cancer was obtained by cross-checking the study population with the Swedish Cancer Registry and the Cause-of-Death registry. A total of 614 patients were followed for a median of 5.1 years. In all, 159 malignancies were diagnosed. The excess risk of cancer or standardized incidence ratio (SIR) following LTx was 5.6-fold compared to the general Swedish population. The most common malignancies were non-melanoma skin cancer (NMSC) (SIR 76.5 (95%CI 61.7-94.8); non-Hodgkin lymphoma (SIR 23.5, 95%CI 14.8-37.2); and lung cancer (SIR 8.89, 95%CI 5.67-13.9). There was no significant difference in overall survival between those with and without a history of cancer before LTx (p = 0.56). In total, 159 malignancies were identified after LTx, which was a 5.6-fold higher relative to the general population. A history of previous cancer yields similar survival in selected recipients, compared to those without cancer prior to LTx.

Heart transplant patients have an increased risk of developing cancer. Patients who underwent HTx between 1985 and 2017 were included. Detection of cancer was obtained by cross-checking the study population with the Swedish Cancer-Registry and the Cause-of-Death-Registry. A total of 664 patients were followed for a median of 7.7 years. In all, 231 malignancies were diagnosed in 138 patients. Compared to the general population the excess risk of cancer following HTx was 6.2-fold calculated as the standardized incidence ratio (SIR) and 2.9-fold after exclusion of non-melanoma skin cancer (NMSC). The most common malignancies were NMSC, non-Hodgins lymphoma, and lung cancer. There was no significant difference in overall survival between those with and without a history of cancer before HTx (<i>p</i> = 0.53). During a median follow-up of 7.7 years, 19% of HTx recipients developed cancer, 6.2-fold higher relative to the general population, and 2.9-fold higher when excluding NMSC. Risk factors for malignancies (excluding NMSC) included previous smoking, hypertension and prolonged ischemic time; and for NMSC, increasing age, seronegative CMV-donors, and azathioprine. A previous cancer in selected recipients results in similar survival compared to those without cancer prior to HTx.

Cherenkov imaging enables real-time visualization of megavoltage X-ray or electron beam delivery to the patient during Radiation Therapy (RT). Bio-morphological features, such as vasculature, seen in these images are patient-specific signatures that can be used for verification of positioning and motion management that are essential to precise RT treatment. However until now, no concerted analysis of this biological feature-based tracking was utilized because of the slow speed and accuracy of conventional image processing for feature segmentation. This study demonstrated the first deep learning framework for such an application, achieving video frame rate processing. To address the challenge of limited annotation of these features in Cherenkov images, a transfer learning strategy was applied. A fundus photography dataset including 20,529 patch retina images with ground-truth vessel annotation was used to pre-train a ResNet segmentation framework. Subsequently, a small Cherenkov dataset (1,483 images from 212 treatment fractions of 19 breast cancer patients) with known annotated vasculature masks was used to fine-tune the model for accurate segmentation prediction. This deep learning framework achieved consistent and rapid segmentation of Cherenkov-imaged bio-morphological features on another 19 patients, including subcutaneous veins, scars, and pigmented skin. Average segmentation by the model achieved Dice score of 0.85 and required less than 0.7 milliseconds processing time per instance. The model demonstrated outstanding consistency against input image variances and speed compared to conventional manual segmentation methods, laying the foundation for online segmentation in real-time monitoring in a prospective setting.

Pannexin 1 (PANX1) is upregulated in many cancers, where its activity and signalling promote tumorigenic properties. Here, we report a novel ∼25 kDa isoform of human PANX1 (hPANX1-25K) which lacks the N-terminus and was detected in several human cancer cell lines including melanoma, osteosarcoma, breast cancer and glioblastoma multiforme. This isoform was increased upon <i>hPANX1</i> CRISPR/Cas9 deletion targeting the first exon near M1, suggesting a potential alternative translation initiation (ATI) site. hPANX1-25K was confirmed to be a hPANX1 isoform via mass spectrometry, can be N-linked glycosylated at N254, and can interact with both β-catenin and full length hPANX1. A double deletion of hPANX1 and hPANX1-25K reduces cell growth and viability in cancer cells. hPANX1-25K is prevalent throughout melanoma progression, and its levels are increased in squamous cell carcinoma cells and patient-derived tumours, compared to keratinocytes and normal skin, indicating that it may be differentially regulated in normal and cancer cells.

Superficial cancers typically refer to cancers confined to the surface layers of tissue. Low-targeting therapies or side effects prompt exploration of novel therapeutic approaches. Gold nanoparticles (AuNPs), due to their unique optical properties, serve as effective photosensitizers, enabling tumor ablation through photothermal therapy (PTT). PTT induced by AuNPs can be achieved through light sources externally applied to the skin. Near-infrared radiation is the main light candidate due to its deep tissue penetration capability. This review explores recent advancements in AuNP-based PTT for superficial cancers, specifically breast, head and neck, thyroid, bladder and prostate cancers. Additionally, challenges and future directions in utilizing AuNPs for cancer treatment are discussed, emphasizing the importance of balancing efficacy with safety in clinical applications.

Transdermal Drug Delivery Systems (TDDSs) offer non-invasive administration and sustained drug release, enhancing patient compliance. However, the skin's natural barrier, particularly the stratum corneum, limits the effectiveness of TDDS for high molecular weight and hydrophilic substances. Innovations in material science, particularly hybrid nanophotonic graphene systems, present promising solutions. Nanophotonics generate localized photothermal effects to create microchannels in the skin, while graphene enhances permeability through its electrical and thermal conductivity. Hybrid nanophotonic systems, such as photonic crystals, plasmonic nanoparticles, metamaterials, quantum dots, nanowires, fiber optic nanosensors, and nanoantennas, offer precise control and real-time monitoring for applications in cancer therapy, chronic pain management, targeted drug delivery, and personalized medicine. This perspective examines the design, effectiveness, biocompatibility, and clinical implications of these hybrid systems, highlighting their potential to expand transdermal drug delivery and revolutionize treatment in personalized medicine. This particular formulation holds patentability, as supported by product patents that highlight the advancements in hybrid nanophotonic graphene systems for transdermal drug delivery.

A feline cutaneous melanocytic tumor in a 1-year-old cat is reported. The cytologic, histologic, and immunohistochemical characteristics of the pediatric feline cutaneous melanocytoma are included. A solitary, black-colored nodule on the head was histologically diagnosed as the epithelioid type of melanocytoma. Immunohistochemically, the neoplastic melanocytes demonstrated immunoreactivity to the S100 and MelanA antibodies but not to the PNL2 antibody. Despite high mitotic counts (17/10HPFs) and a Ki67 index (33%) suggesting malignant melanoma, the patient exhibited a favorable 5-month outcome. The mitotic activity of the neoplastic cells may not provide a reliable prediction for feline melanocytic tumors.

The authors present the case of a 71-year-old female patient who was operated on for 16 days of abdominal pain. The work points to malignant melanoma as a rare cause of abdominal pain and then shows the inscrutability of malignant melanoma and the importance of a multidisciplinary approach to this type of disease including subsequent dispensary by an oncologist. The emphasis on the prevention of this disease is an integral part of this approach.

Cancer development takes 10 to 50 years, and epigenetics plays an important role. Recent evidence suggests that ~80% of human cancers are linked to environmental factors impinging upon genetics/epigenetics. Because advanced metastasized cancers are resistant to radiation/chemotherapeutic drugs, cancer prevention by relatively nontoxic "epigenetic modifiers" will be logical. Many dietary phytochemicals possess powerful antioxidant and anti-inflammatory properties that are hallmarks of cancer prevention. Dietary phytochemicals can regulate gene expression of the cellular genome via epigenetic mechanisms. In this review, we will summarize preclinical studies that demonstrate epigenetic mechanisms of dietary phytochemicals in skin, colorectal, and prostate cancer prevention. Key examples of the importance of epigenetic regulation in carcinogenesis include hypermethylation of the NRF2 promoter region in cancer cells, resulting in inhibition of NRF2-ARE signaling. Many dietary phytochemicals demethylate NRF2 promoter region and restore NRF2 signaling. Phytochemicals can also inhibit inflammatory responses via hypermethylation of inflammation-relevant genes to block gene expression. Altogether, dietary phytochemicals are excellent candidates for cancer prevention due to their low toxicity, potent antioxidant and anti-inflammatory properties, and powerful epigenetic effects in reversing procarcinogenic events.

Malignant skin tumors mainly include basal cell carcinoma, squamous cell carcinoma, and malignant melanoma. There is currently observational research suggesting that changes in cathepsin (CTS) may be a factor in the development of malignant skin tumors, but no studies have yet demonstrated a causal relationship between tissue protease changes and the occurrence of malignant skin tumors. Current studies have shown that cathepsin is involved in tumor cell invasion and metastasis by regulating growth factors and cellular immune function in tumor microenvironment, decomposing extracellular matrix and basement membrane, and promoting angiogenesis. In this study, we conducted a bidirectional Mendelian-randomization study using publicly available genome-wide association study (GWAS; GWAS Catalog) data. This study applies a bidirectional multivariate Mendelian randomization (MR) approach to investigate the causal relationship between cathepsin, basal cell carcinoma, squamous cell carcinoma, and malignant melanoma. In cases where multiple cathepsins are implicated as etiological factors in certain diseases, a multivariable analysis is conducted to assess the direct and indirect causal effects of the exposure factors. In this study, we present a comprehensive MR analysis to investigate the relationship between 9 cathepsin and basal cell carcinoma, squamous cell carcinoma, and malignant melanoma. Based on our MR analysis using the largest GWAS Catalog dataset available, we are able to draw relatively reliable conclusions. In the MR study, we found that tissue protease L2 can promote skin cancer, Cathepsin O, and Cathepsin F are associated with an increased risk of basal cell carcinoma. Cathepsin H can inhibit basal cell carcinoma and malignant melanoma. In the reverse MR study, it was found that squamous cell carcinoma may cause an increase in Cathepsin O expression. In the multivariate analysis, it was found that Cathepsin H is a direct factor in reducing the occurrence of skin cancer and melanoma, with no apparent causal relationship to non-melanoma skin cancer. Cathepsin has a dual impact on skin cancer cells, and the expression of different cathepsins at the edge of skin tumors may indicate different developmental tendencies of skin cancer. Cathepsin may serve as effective biomarkers for predicting tumors.

Malignant skin tumors mainly include basal cell carcinoma, squamous cell carcinoma, and malignant melanoma. There is currently observational research suggesting that changes in cathepsin (CTS) may be a factor in the development of malignant skin tumors, but no studies have yet demonstrated a causal relationship between tissue protease changes and the occurrence of malignant skin tumors. Current studies have shown that cathepsin is involved in tumor cell invasion and metastasis by regulating growth factors and cellular immune function in tumor microenvironment, decomposing extracellular matrix and basement membrane, and promoting angiogenesis. In this study, we conducted a bidirectional Mendelian-randomization study using publicly available genome-wide association study (GWAS; GWAS Catalog) data. This study applies a bidirectional multivariate Mendelian randomization (MR) approach to investigate the causal relationship between cathepsin, basal cell carcinoma, squamous cell carcinoma, and malignant melanoma. In cases where multiple cathepsins are implicated as etiological factors in certain diseases, a multivariable analysis is conducted to assess the direct and indirect causal effects of the exposure factors. In this study, we present a comprehensive MR analysis to investigate the relationship between 9 cathepsin and basal cell carcinoma, squamous cell carcinoma, and malignant melanoma. Based on our MR analysis using the largest GWAS Catalog dataset available, we are able to draw relatively reliable conclusions. In the MR study, we found that tissue protease L2 can promote skin cancer, Cathepsin O, and Cathepsin F are associated with an increased risk of basal cell carcinoma. Cathepsin H can inhibit basal cell carcinoma and malignant melanoma. In the reverse MR study, it was found that squamous cell carcinoma may cause an increase in Cathepsin O expression. In the multivariate analysis, it was found that Cathepsin H is a direct factor in reducing the occurrence of skin cancer and melanoma, with no apparent causal relationship to non-melanoma skin cancer. Cathepsin has a dual impact on skin cancer cells, and the expression of different cathepsins at the edge of skin tumors may indicate different developmental tendencies of skin cancer. Cathepsin may serve as effective biomarkers for predicting tumors.

Uveal melanoma (UM) is a rare melanoma originating in the eye's uvea, with 50% of patients experiencing metastasis predominantly in the liver. In contrast to cutaneous melanoma, there is only a limited effectiveness of combined immune checkpoint therapies, and half of patients with uveal melanoma metastases succumb to disease within 2 years. This study aimed to provide a path toward enhancing immunotherapy efficacy by identifying and functionally validating tumor-reactive T cells in liver metastases of patients with UM. We employed single-cell RNA-seq of biopsies and tumor-infiltrating lymphocytes (TILs) to identify potential tumor-reactive T cells. Patient-derived xenograft (PDX) models of UM metastases were created from patients, and tumor sphere cultures were generated from these models for co-culture with autologous or MART1-specific HLA-matched allogenic TILs. Activated T cells were subjected to TCR-seq, and the TCRs were matched to those found in single-cell sequencing data from biopsies, expanded TILs, and in livers or spleens of PDX models injected with TILs. Our findings revealed that tumor-reactive T cells resided not only among activated and exhausted subsets of T cells, but also in a subset of cytotoxic effector cells. In conclusion, combining single-cell sequencing and functional analysis provides valuable insights into which T cells in UM may be useful for cell therapy amplification and marker selection.

Adenoid cystic carcinoma arising in the external auditory canal is rare, and even rarer are cases with sebaceous differentiation mimicking sebaceous carcinoma. This case with clinical, radiologic, gross, and histologic images exemplifies an unusual occurrence of adenoid cystic carcinoma in the external auditory canal with sebaceous differentiation, confirmed by MYB::NFIB fusion.

Adenoid cystic carcinoma arising in the external auditory canal is rare, and even rarer are cases with sebaceous differentiation mimicking sebaceous carcinoma. This case with clinical, radiologic, gross, and histologic images exemplifies an unusual occurrence of adenoid cystic carcinoma in the external auditory canal with sebaceous differentiation, confirmed by MYB::NFIB fusion.

Adenoid cystic carcinoma arising in the external auditory canal is rare, and even rarer are cases with sebaceous differentiation mimicking sebaceous carcinoma. This case with clinical, radiologic, gross, and histologic images exemplifies an unusual occurrence of adenoid cystic carcinoma in the external auditory canal with sebaceous differentiation, confirmed by MYB::NFIB fusion.

Adenoid cystic carcinoma arising in the external auditory canal is rare, and even rarer are cases with sebaceous differentiation mimicking sebaceous carcinoma. This case with clinical, radiologic, gross, and histologic images exemplifies an unusual occurrence of adenoid cystic carcinoma in the external auditory canal with sebaceous differentiation, confirmed by MYB::NFIB fusion.

With the development of immunotherapy, there is an ongoing need to develop models that can recapitulate the tumor microenvironment of native tumors. While traditional two- and three-dimensional models can offer insights into cancer development and progression, these lack crucial aspects that hinder a faithful mimic of native tumors. An alternative model that has gained a lot of attention is the patient-derived organoid. The development of these organoids recapitulates the complex intercellular communication, tumor microenvironment, and histoarchitecture of tumors. This paper describes the protocol for establishing melanoma patient-derived organoid (MPDO) models. To validate these models, we assessed the immune cell composition, including the expression levels of T-cell activation markers, to confirm the cellular heterogeneity of the organoids. Additionally, to describe the potential utility of MPDOs in cellular therapies, we evaluated the cytotoxic capabilities of treating the organoids with γδ T-cells. In conclusion, the MPDO models offer promising avenues for understanding tumor complexity, validating therapeutic strategies, and potentially advancing personalized treatment.

The article aims to outline the potential of treating malignant skin cancer with microneedles covered with polymer layers containing a photosensitizer-protoporphyrin IX disodium salt (PPIX). The usefulness of stereolithography (SLA), which is a form of 3D-printing technology, for the preparation of a microneedle system with protoporphyrin IX was demonstrated. The SLA method allowed for pyramid-shaped microneedles to be printed that were covered with three different 0.1% PPIX hydrogels based on sodium alginate, xanthan, and poloxamer. Rheological tests and microscopic analysis of the hydrogels were performed. Microneedles coated with two layers of poloxamer-based hydrogel containing 0.1% PPIX were subjected to release tests in Franz diffusion cells. The release profile of PPIX initially increased and then remained relatively constant. The amount of substance released after a four-hour test in three Franz cells was 0.2569 ± 0.0683 mg/cm<sup>2</sup>. Moreover, the acute toxicity of this type of microneedle was assessed using the Microtox system. The obtained results show the usefulness of further development studies on microneedles as carriers of photosensitizing agents.

Non-melanoma skin cancers (NMSCs) are a significant cause of morbidity and mortality; their incidence is increasing most in older patients. NMSCs have traditionally been treated with surgical excision, curettage, Mohs micrographic surgery (MMS), and superficial radiotherapy (SRT). Image-guided SRT (IGSRT) is a treatment option for poor surgical candidates or patients with low- or high-risk, early-stage NMSC who prefer to avoid surgery. This large retrospective cohort study compared 2-, 4-, and 6-year freedom from recurrence in biopsy-proven NMSC lesions treated with IGSRT (<i>n</i> = 20,069 lesions) between patients aged < 65 years (<i>n</i> = 3158 lesions) and ≥65 years (<i>n</i> = 16,911 lesions). Overall freedom from recurrence rates were 99.68% at 2 years, 99.57% at 4 years, and 99.57% at 6 years. Rates did not differ significantly by age (<i>p</i> = 0.8) nor by sex among the two age groups (<i>p</i> > 0.9). There was a significant difference in recurrence among older patients when analyzed by stage (<i>p</i> = 0.032), but no difference by stage in younger patients (<i>p</i> = 0.7). For early-stage NMSCs, IGSRT is a clinically equivalent alternative to MMS and statistically significant in superiority to non-image-guided SRT. This study demonstrates that there is no significant effect of age on 2-, 4-, or 6-year freedom from recurrence in patients with IGSRT-treated NMSC.

We computationally predicted all phosphorylation sites in the sequence of the human laminin γ1-chain (LAMC1), and computationally identified, for the first time, all kinases for experimentally observed phosphorylated residues of the LAMC1 and all missense deleterious LAMC1 mutations found in different cancer types that interfere with LAMC1 phosphorylation. Also, we mapped the above data to all the biologically functional interaction sequences of the LAMC1. Five kinases (CKII, GPCRK1, PKA, PKC, and CKI) are most enriched for LAMC1 phosphorylation, and the significance of ecto-kinases in this process was emphasized. PKA and PKC targeted more residues inside and close to functional interaction sequences compared with other kinases and in the functional interaction sequence RPESFAIYKRTR. Most phosphorylation-interfering mutations were found in cutaneous melanoma and uterine endometrioid carcinoma. The mutation R255H interfered with the experimentally observed phosphorylation of LAMC1 inside the functional interaction sequence TDIRVTLNRLNTF, while the mutations S181Y and S213Y interfered with the experimentally observed phosphorylation of LAMC1 outside the functional interaction sequences. Mutations R359C,H, R589H, R657C,H, R663I,G, and T1207 interfered with the predicted phosphorylation inside or close to the functional interaction sequences, whereas other mutations interfered outside. PKA- and PKC-predicted phosphorylation was mostly interfered with by mutations inside functional interaction sequences. Phosphorylation- interfering mutations and functional interaction sequences were suggested to promote specific cancer types or cancer progression in general.

Locally advanced colon cancer (LACC) can be cured under an appropriate treatment strategy, but the decision on the treatment strategy is also important in terms of long-term prognosis. In cases with extensive abdominal wall involvement, it is especially important to secure adequate margins and repair abdominal wall defects. Recently, neoadjuvant chemotherapy (NAC) for LACC has shown promise in improving the chance of cure with tumor shrinkage. Herein, we report a case of curative surgery after NAC for locally advanced sigmoid colon cancer with extensive abdominal wall invasion. A 50-year-old woman visited our hospital with anemia and an abdominal mass. The diagnosis was LACC of the sigmoid colon with abdominal wall invasion (maximum size, 12 cm), and the clinical stage was stage IIIc (T4b[skin]N1bM0). Resection of the involved skin was expected to cause an extensive abdominal wall defect. At first, a colostomy was performed, followed by NAC with leucovorin, 5-fluorouracil, and oxaliplatin (FOLFOX). Ten cycles of chemotherapy were completed without severe adverse events, and the tumor shrank in size by approximately 39%. We performed a curative sigmoidectomy combined with abdominal wall resection with adequate margins. We reconstructed the abdominal wall defect using a left anterolateral thigh skin flap. Pathological examination revealed mucinous carcinoma involving the transverse colon and abdominal wall, with luminal narrowing in the sigmoid colon. The surgical margins were negative, and the tumor was considered to have had a pathological partial response to NAC. Herein, we report a rare case of curative surgery after NAC with FOLFOX for LACC in the sigmoid colon with extensive invasion of the abdominal wall. We reconstructed the extensive abdominal wall defect with a free anterolateral thigh flap. One of the optional treatment strategies for LACC with extensive abdominal wall invasion was reported in our report.

Epithelioid hemangioma (EHE) is a rarely malignant tumor originating from the vascular endothelium. Morphological manifestations and immunohistochemical staining results are key to diagnosing EHE. Herein, we present a case of cutaneous involment in a recurrence of EHE. A 75-year-old woman presented with a month-long history of persistent erythematous plaque and pain in the left shoulder. Skin biopsy specimen revealed epithelioid tumor cells containing abundant eosinophilic cytoplasm. Immunohistochemical staining confirmed a recurrence of EHE involving the skin. Subsequently, recombinant human endostatin was administered. At the 10-day follow-up, the cutaneous plaque had improved, and the pain had resolved. When presenting as a local painful erythematous plaque, the possibility of skin involvement in a malignant tumor should be considered. Early diagnosis and early systemic therapy have an important impact on the overall survival of patients with EHE.

To explore the challenges and future of carbon-ion radiation therapy (CIRT) in breast cancer, we summarized the progress of nonclinical and clinical studies on CIRT for breast cancer in this review. A total of 6 nonclinical studies have been reported, which demonstrated a better effect of Carbon-ion irradiation compared with X-ray in breast cancer cell lines (including triple-negative breast cancer and Human Epidermal Growth Factor Receptor 2-negative breast cancer). Combination with Hh inhibitor, dual tyrosine kinase inhibitor, and PARP inhibitor is promising as demonstrated in the in vitro studies. Approximately 34 patients with breast cancer went through CIRT treatment, as reported in 5 clinical studies. All studies demonstrated promising treatment effects with acceptable and manageable risks. In these studies, a total of 21 patients were reported with post-treatment response assessments, among whom 19 patients (90.48%) reported a response of complete response or partial response. The complete response rate was 66.67%. The time to complete the response ranged from 3 months to 24 months. No adverse events were observed in these studies except for grade 1 acute skin reaction in 14 out of the 21 patients (66.67%). Although the time to respond was longer than expected in some studies, the persistent responses and satisfactory safety profile provided the rationale for further research on this new therapy.

The incidence of melanoma, the most aggressive form of skin cancer, continues to rise globally, particularly among fair-skinned populations (type I and II). Early detection is crucial for improving patient outcomes, and recent advancements in artificial intelligence (AI) have shown promise in enhancing the accuracy and efficiency of melanoma diagnosis and management. This review examines the role of AI in skin lesion diagnostics, highlighting two main approaches: machine learning, particularly convolutional neural networks (CNNs), and expert systems. AI techniques have demonstrated high accuracy in classifying dermoscopic images, often matching or surpassing dermatologists' performance. Integrating AI into dermatology has improved tasks, such as lesion classification, segmentation, and risk prediction, facilitating earlier and more accurate interventions. Despite these advancements, challenges remain, including biases in training data, interpretability issues, and integration of AI into clinical workflows. Ensuring diverse data representation and maintaining high standards of image quality are essential for reliable AI performance. Future directions involve the development of more sophisticated models, such as vision-language and multimodal models, and federated learning to address data privacy and generalizability concerns. Continuous validation and ethical integration of AI into clinical practice are vital for realizing its full potential for improving melanoma diagnosis and patient care.

LY6H, a member of the lymphocyte antigen-6(LY6) gene family, is located on human chromosomes 6, 8, 11 and 19. This superfamily is characterized by the presence of LU domains. It has demonstrated its emerging significance in various cancers including adenocarcinoma, bladder cancer, ovarian cancer and skin cancer. However, comprehensive pan-cancer analyses have not been conducted to investigate its role in diagnosis, prognosis and immunological prediction. By conducting comprehensive analysis of patient data obtained from publicly available databases, including The Cancer Genome Atlas (TCGA), Genotype-Tissue Expression (GTEx), University of Alabama at Birmingham (UALCAN), The Comparative Toxicological Genomics Database (CTD), cBioportal, cancerSEA, and UCSC, we systematically investigated the differential expression of LY6H in 33 different types of human tumors. Additionally, we thoroughly analyzed the diagnostic, prognostic, and immunoinfiltration value of LY6H. Simultaneously, we examined the correlation between LY6H and tumor stemness, methylation patterns, drug sensitivity, gene alterations as well as single cell functions. Furthermore, protein-protein interaction networks and gene-gene interaction networks for LY6H were constructed. Moreover, we also explored the network relationship between LY6H and chemical compounds or genes. The results revealed that LY6H exhibited high expression levels in most cancers which were further validated through Reverse Transcription-Polymerase Chain Reaction (RT-PCR) and Immunohistochemistry (IHC) analysis using Hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) samples. Moreover, LY6H displayed early diagnostic potential in 12 tumors while also showing positive or negative correlations with prognosis across different tumor types. Additionally, it was found that LY6H played a pivotal role in regulating immune-infiltrating cells across multiple cancers whereas the correlation between LY6H expression and immune-related genes varied depending on their specific types. Furthermore, the expression of LY6H was significantly associated with DNA methylation patterns in 21 cancers. Therefore, LY6H could serve as an adjunctive biomarker for early tumor detection as well as a prognostic indicator for diverse malignancies.

This study aimed to introduce a biomarker panel to detect pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma (PDAC) in the early stage, and also differentiate of stages from each other.

Blastic plasmacytoid dendritic cell neoplasm (BPDCN) is a rare and aggressive haematological malignancy, typically characterised by cutaneous lesions and bone marrow involvement. We present a unique case of a woman in her 70s, initially seen for a spontaneous swelling on her left external ear resembling a haematoma, which recurred after initial treatment, triggering further evaluation.Diagnostic challenges arose as the patient displayed positive markers for Myeloperoxidase (MPO) (p-ANCA), suggesting vasculitis. Dermatology considered various differential diagnoses, but imaging and tests ruled out significant pathology. Steroid treatment led to improvement, but coincided with a surge in white cell count (WCC), prompting an urgent haematological review.Subsequent investigations, including a punch biopsy of the external ear and a bone marrow biopsy revealed BPDCN concurrent with chronic myelomonocytic leukaemia. This case highlights the challenging diagnostic journey, emphasising the need for multidisciplinary collaboration and the potential for unique BPDCN presentations, expanding our understanding of this malignancy.

Wood's light (WL) is a useful, economical and easy-to-learn diagnostic tool. Despite its advantages, the use of LW among dermatologists is limited. In porokeratosis, the "diamond necklace" sign has been described, corresponding to the white fluorescence of the hyperkeratotic scale. Subclinical morphea lesions are seen as well-defined dark macules. Among the pigmentary disorders, the bluish fluorescence of vitiligo, the increased contrast of epidermal melasma, and the follicular-centered red fluorescence of progressive macular hypomelanosis stand out. Regarding skin infections, erythrasma presents a coral red fluorescence; tinea versicolor, yellow-green fluorescence; Pseudomonas aeuriginosa, green fluorescence; and scabies, blue-white fluorescence in the acarine grooves. In skin cancer, LW has been used to delimit the surgical margins of both lentigo maligna and non-melanoma skin cancer, with variable results.

The in-situ activation of adaptive immunity at the surgical site has demonstrated remarkable efficacy in inhibiting various forms of tumour recurrence and even holds the promise of a potential cure. However, extensive research and bioinformatic analysis conducted in this study have unveiled the formidable challenge posed by melanoma-intrinsic β-catenin signaling, which hinders the infiltration of cytotoxic T-lymphocytes (CTLs) and their subsequent anti-tumour action. To overcome this obstacle, a β-catenin antagonist called carnosic acid (CA) was co-assembled with a RADA-rich peptide to create a nanonet-derived hydrogel known as Supra-gelδCA. This injectable hydrogel is designed to be retained at the surgical site while simultaneously promoting hemostasis. Importantly, Supra-gelδCA directly releases CA to the site of residual tumour lesions, thereby enhancing infiltration of CTLs and subsequently activating adaptive immunity. Consequently, it effectively suppresses postoperative recurrence of skin cutaneous melanoma (SKCM) in vivo. Collectively, the presented Supra-gelδCA not only provides an efficacious immunotherapy strategy for regulating adaptive immunity by overcoming the obstacle posed by melanoma-intrinsic β-catenin signaling-induced absence of CTLs but also offers a clinically translatable hydrogel that revolutionizes post-surgical management of SKCM.

The diagnosis of early-stage mycosis fungoides (MF) is challenging owing to shared clinical and histopathological features with benign inflammatory dermatoses. Recent evidence has shown that deep learning (DL) can assist pathologists in cancer classification, but this field is largely unexplored for cutaneous lymphomas. This study evaluates DL in distinguishing early-stage MF from benign inflammatory dermatoses using a unique dataset of 924 H&E-stained whole-slide images from skin biopsies, including 233 patients with early-stage MF and 353 patients with benign inflammatory dermatoses. All patients with MF were diagnosed after clinicopathological correlation. The classification accuracy of weakly supervised DL models was benchmarked against 3 expert pathologists. The highest performance on a temporal test set was at ×200 magnification (0.50 μm per pixel resolution), with a mean area under the curve of 0.827 ± 0.044 and a mean balanced accuracy of 76.2 ± 3.9%. This nearly matched the 77.7% mean balanced accuracy of the 3 expert pathologists. Most (63.5%) attention heatmaps corresponded well with the pathologists' region of interest. Considering the difficulty of the MF versus benign inflammatory dermatoses classification task, the results of this study show promise for future applications of weakly supervised DL in diagnosing early-stage MF. Achieving clinical-grade performance will require larger multi-institutional datasets and improved methodologies, such as multimodal DL with incorporation of clinical data.

The diagnosis of early-stage mycosis fungoides (MF) is challenging owing to shared clinical and histopathological features with benign inflammatory dermatoses. Recent evidence has shown that deep learning (DL) can assist pathologists in cancer classification, but this field is largely unexplored for cutaneous lymphomas. This study evaluates DL in distinguishing early-stage MF from benign inflammatory dermatoses using a unique dataset of 924 H&E-stained whole-slide images from skin biopsies, including 233 patients with early-stage MF and 353 patients with benign inflammatory dermatoses. All patients with MF were diagnosed after clinicopathological correlation. The classification accuracy of weakly supervised DL models was benchmarked against 3 expert pathologists. The highest performance on a temporal test set was at ×200 magnification (0.50 μm per pixel resolution), with a mean area under the curve of 0.827 ± 0.044 and a mean balanced accuracy of 76.2 ± 3.9%. This nearly matched the 77.7% mean balanced accuracy of the 3 expert pathologists. Most (63.5%) attention heatmaps corresponded well with the pathologists' region of interest. Considering the difficulty of the MF versus benign inflammatory dermatoses classification task, the results of this study show promise for future applications of weakly supervised DL in diagnosing early-stage MF. Achieving clinical-grade performance will require larger multi-institutional datasets and improved methodologies, such as multimodal DL with incorporation of clinical data.

The diagnosis of early-stage mycosis fungoides (MF) is challenging owing to shared clinical and histopathological features with benign inflammatory dermatoses. Recent evidence has shown that deep learning (DL) can assist pathologists in cancer classification, but this field is largely unexplored for cutaneous lymphomas. This study evaluates DL in distinguishing early-stage MF from benign inflammatory dermatoses using a unique dataset of 924 H&E-stained whole-slide images from skin biopsies, including 233 patients with early-stage MF and 353 patients with benign inflammatory dermatoses. All patients with MF were diagnosed after clinicopathological correlation. The classification accuracy of weakly supervised DL models was benchmarked against 3 expert pathologists. The highest performance on a temporal test set was at ×200 magnification (0.50 μm per pixel resolution), with a mean area under the curve of 0.827 ± 0.044 and a mean balanced accuracy of 76.2 ± 3.9%. This nearly matched the 77.7% mean balanced accuracy of the 3 expert pathologists. Most (63.5%) attention heatmaps corresponded well with the pathologists' region of interest. Considering the difficulty of the MF versus benign inflammatory dermatoses classification task, the results of this study show promise for future applications of weakly supervised DL in diagnosing early-stage MF. Achieving clinical-grade performance will require larger multi-institutional datasets and improved methodologies, such as multimodal DL with incorporation of clinical data.

The diagnosis of early-stage mycosis fungoides (MF) is challenging owing to shared clinical and histopathological features with benign inflammatory dermatoses. Recent evidence has shown that deep learning (DL) can assist pathologists in cancer classification, but this field is largely unexplored for cutaneous lymphomas. This study evaluates DL in distinguishing early-stage MF from benign inflammatory dermatoses using a unique dataset of 924 H&E-stained whole-slide images from skin biopsies, including 233 patients with early-stage MF and 353 patients with benign inflammatory dermatoses. All patients with MF were diagnosed after clinicopathological correlation. The classification accuracy of weakly supervised DL models was benchmarked against 3 expert pathologists. The highest performance on a temporal test set was at ×200 magnification (0.50 μm per pixel resolution), with a mean area under the curve of 0.827 ± 0.044 and a mean balanced accuracy of 76.2 ± 3.9%. This nearly matched the 77.7% mean balanced accuracy of the 3 expert pathologists. Most (63.5%) attention heatmaps corresponded well with the pathologists' region of interest. Considering the difficulty of the MF versus benign inflammatory dermatoses classification task, the results of this study show promise for future applications of weakly supervised DL in diagnosing early-stage MF. Achieving clinical-grade performance will require larger multi-institutional datasets and improved methodologies, such as multimodal DL with incorporation of clinical data.

Quantum sensing using the fluorescent nanodiamond (FND) nitrogen-vacancy center enables physical/chemical measurements of the microenvironment, although application of such measurements in living mammals poses significant challenges due to the unknown biodistribution and toxicity of FNDs, the limited penetration of visible light for quantum state manipulation/measurement, and interference from physiological motion. Here, we describe a microenvironmental thermometry technique using FNDs in rat mammary epithelium, an important model for mammary gland biology and breast cancer research. FNDs were injected directly into the mammary gland. Microscopic observation of mammary tissue sections showed that most FNDs remained in the mammary epithelium for at least 8 weeks. Pathological examination indicated no obvious change in tissue morphology, suggesting negligible toxicity. Optical excitation and detection were performed through a skin incision. Periodic movements due to respiration and heartbeat were mitigated by frequency filtering of the signal. Based on these methods, we successfully detected temperature elevation in the mammary epithelium associated with lipopolysaccharide-induced inflammation, demonstrating the sensitivity and relevance of the technique in biological contexts. This study lays the groundwork for expanding the applicability of quantum sensing in biomedical research, providing a tool for real-time monitoring of physiological and pathological processes.

Quantum sensing using the fluorescent nanodiamond (FND) nitrogen-vacancy center enables physical/chemical measurements of the microenvironment, although application of such measurements in living mammals poses significant challenges due to the unknown biodistribution and toxicity of FNDs, the limited penetration of visible light for quantum state manipulation/measurement, and interference from physiological motion. Here, we describe a microenvironmental thermometry technique using FNDs in rat mammary epithelium, an important model for mammary gland biology and breast cancer research. FNDs were injected directly into the mammary gland. Microscopic observation of mammary tissue sections showed that most FNDs remained in the mammary epithelium for at least 8 weeks. Pathological examination indicated no obvious change in tissue morphology, suggesting negligible toxicity. Optical excitation and detection were performed through a skin incision. Periodic movements due to respiration and heartbeat were mitigated by frequency filtering of the signal. Based on these methods, we successfully detected temperature elevation in the mammary epithelium associated with lipopolysaccharide-induced inflammation, demonstrating the sensitivity and relevance of the technique in biological contexts. This study lays the groundwork for expanding the applicability of quantum sensing in biomedical research, providing a tool for real-time monitoring of physiological and pathological processes.

Ferroptosis, a key factor in tumor progression, is poorly understood at the molecular level. This study investigates how ELK4 and CHMP6 regulate skin cutaneous melanoma (SKCM) cell proliferation and ferroptosis. Analysis of TCGA data reveals high expression of ELK4 and CHMP6 in SKCM. Overexpression of ELK4 or CHMP6 enhances cell proliferation, invasion, and migration while reducing ROS and Fe2 + levels. It also increases GPX4 and xCT expression and decreases ACSL4 levels in SKCM cells. The opposite effects are observed with ELK4 or CHMP6 knockdown. ELK4 binds to the CHMP6 promoter, promoting CHMP6 transcription. Knockdown of CHMP6 reverses the oncogenic effects of ELK4 overexpression. In conclusion, ELK4 enhances proliferation, invasion, and migration while inhibiting ferroptosis in SKCM cells by upregulating CHMP6 transcription. This study sheds light on the intricate mechanisms involved in SKCM progression and identifies potential therapeutic targets in melanoma treatment.

Necrotizing fasciitis (NF) is a rare and life-threatening serious infectious disease, characterized by acute onset and rapid progress, leading to extensive necrosis of skin, soft tissue as well as fascia by a variety of aerobic and anaerobic bacteria, localized on external genitalia, scrotum, groin and perianal areas in males. There exist numerous common etiologies for NF, yet NF induced by malignant neoplasms is exceedingly rare. Several studies have reported that NF may be associated with tumor site (rectal/sigmoid colon cancer) and blood supply dysfunction caused by targeted therapy drugs (bevacizumab, aflibercept, ramucirumab). The perforation of colorectal cancer poses a unique risk factor for NF. However, in our two cases, the patient with rectal cancer received CapeOX (oxaliplatin + capecitabine) + bevacizumab + tislelizumab for 3 cycles without perforation but did develop NF. One month after debridement, the patient continued immunotherapy with tislelizumab alone for the fourth cycle and maintained for an additional 3 cycles without any recurrence of NF. Therefore, does the occurrence of NF correlate with the tumor site (rectum) and targeted immunotherapy? Another patient with hepatocellular carcinoma also developed NF after receiving 2 cycles of lenvatinib + sintilimab treatment. The third cycle of sintilimab immunotherapy was administered on the 13th day after operation, which was subsequently maintained for an additional 2 cycles without recurrence of NF. The absence of a direct correlation between hepatocellular carcinoma and rectal tumor location as well as immunotherapy, suggests that NF may be closely linked to targeted therapy.

Tattoo pigment is expected to migrate beyond the skin to regional lymph nodes and the liver. Modern tattoo ink commonly contains metals that may pose a clinical problem during MRI examinations. This study aimed to investigate the biodistribution of iron oxide pigment to internal organs in mice. Moreover, when exposed to a static magnetic field, we studied whether any reactions followed in the tattooed skin. Twenty-seven hairless C3.Cg-Hrhr/TifBomTac mice were included; 20 were tattooed with iron oxide ink in a rectangular 3 cm<sup>2</sup> pattern; seven were controls. Ten of the tattooed mice were exposed to a 3 T MRI scanner's static magnetic field. Following euthanasia, evaluations of dissected organs involved MRI T2*-mapping, light microscopy (LM) and metal analysis. T2*-mapping measures the relaxation times of hydrogen nuclei in water and fat, which may be affected by neighbouring ferrimagnetic particles, thus enabling the detection of iron oxide particles in organs. Elemental analysis detected a significant level of metals in the tattooed skin compared to controls, but no skin reactions occurred when exposed to a 3 T static magnetic field. No disparity was observed in the liver samples with metal analysis. T2* mapping found no significant difference between the two groups. Only minute clusters of pigment particles were observed in the liver by LM. Our results demonstrate a minimal systemic distribution of the iron oxide pigments to the liver, whereas the kidney and brain were unaffected. The static magnetic field did not trigger skin reactions in magnetic tattoos but may induce image artefacts during MRI.

Tyrosinase is involved in several human diseases, among which hypopigmentation and depigmentation conditions (vitiligo, idiopathic guttate hypomelanosis, pityriasis versicolor, pityriasis alba) and hyperpigmentations (melasma, lentigines, post-inflammatory and periorbital hyperpigmentation, cervical idiopathic poikiloderma and acanthosis nigricans). There are increasing evidences that tyrosinase plays a relevant role in the formation and progression of melanoma, a difficult to treat skin tumor. Hydroquinone, azelaic acid and tretinoin (all-trans-retinoic acid) are clinically used in the management of some hyperpigmentations, whereas many novel chemotypes acting as tyrosinase inhibitors with potential antimelanoma action are being investigated. Kojic acid, hydroquinone, its glycosylated derivative arbutin, or the resorcinol derivative rucinol are used in cosmesis in creams as skin whitening agents, whereas no antimelanoma tyrosinase inhibitor reached clinical trials so far, although thiamidol is a recently approved new tyrosinase inhibitor for the treatment of melasma. Kojic acid and vitamin C are used for avoiding vegetable/food oxidative browning due to the tyrosinase-catalyzed reactions, whereas bacterial enzymes show potential in biotechnological applications, for the production of mixed melanins, for protein cross-linking reactions, for producing phenol(s) biosensors, of for the production of L-DOPA, an anti-Parkinson's disease drug.

Bacterial tyrosinase is a copper-containing metalloenzyme with diverse physio-chemical properties, that have been identified in various bacterial strains, including actinobacteria and proteobacteria. Tyrosinases are responsible for the rate-limiting catalytic steps in melanin biosynthesis and enzymatic browning. The physiological role of bacterial tyrosinases in melanin biosynthesis has been harnessed for the production of coloring and dyeing agents. Additionally, bacterial tyrosinases have the capability of cross-linking activity, demonstrated material functionalization applications, and applications in food processing with varying substrate specificities and stability features. These characteristics make bacterial tyrosinases a valuable alternative to well-studied mushroom tyrosinases. The key feature of substrate specificity of bacterial tyrosinase has been exploited to engineer biosensors that have the ability to detect the minimal amount of different phenolic compounds. Today, the world is facing the challenge of multi-drugs resistance in various diseases, especially antibiotic resistance, skin cancer, enzymatic browning of fruits and vegetables, and melanogenesis. To address these challenges, medicinal scientists are developing novel chemotherapeutic agents by inhibiting bacterial tyrosinases. To serve this purpose, heterocyclic compounds are of particular interest due to their vast spectrum of biological activities and their potential as effective tyrosinase inhibitors. In this chapter, a plethora of research explores applications of bacterial tyrosinases in different fields, such as the production of dyes and pigments, catalytic applications in organic synthesis, bioremediation, food and feed applications, biosensors, wool fiber coating and the rationalized synthesis, and structure-activity relationship of bacterial tyrosinase inhibitors.

Giant basal cell carcinoma (GBCC) is a rare and more aggressive variant of basal cell carcinoma. We present a case of GBCC with an overview of the challenges it presents.A man in his 60s presented to the tertiary care unit with a history of an ulcer over the posterior aspect of his left heel for the past 1 year. Examination revealed an ulceroproliferative lesion of 10×8 cm on the posterior aspect of the left heel and lower Tendo-Achilles region. A wedge biopsy of the lesion was performed twice, which demonstrated basal cell carcinoma. The patient underwent excision of the lesion with 10 mm margins. A split-thickness skin graft was placed and secured over the resultant wound with the application of a negative pressure wound dressing.The correlation between tumour size and tumour behaviour is examined. Additionally, the significance of tumour location, width of margins, incidence recurrence or metastasis is also studied.

Psoriasis is a chronic inflammatory skin disease characterized by excessive proliferation of keratinocytes and infiltration of immune cells. Although psoriasis has entered the era of biological treatment, there is still a need to explore more effective therapeutic targets and drugs due to the presence of resistance and adverse reactions to biologics. Remetinostat, an HDAC inhibitor, can maintain its potency within the skin with minimal systemic effects, making it a promising topical medication for treating psoriasis. But its effectiveness in treating psoriasis has not been evaluated. In this study, the topical application of remetinostat significantly improved psoriasiform inflammation in an imiquimod-induced mice model by inhibiting CD86 expression of CD11C<sup>+</sup>I-A/I-E<sup>+</sup> dendritic cells (DCs) in the skin. Moreover, remetinostat could dampen the maturation and activation of bone marrow-derived DCs in vitro, as well as the expression of psoriasis-related inflammatory mediators by keratinocytes. In addition, remetinostat could promote keratinocyte differentiation without affecting its proliferation. Our findings demonstrate that remetinostat improves psoriasis by inhibiting the maturation and activation of DCs and the differentiation and inflammation of keratinocytes, which may facilitate the potential application of remetinostat in anti-psoriasis therapy.

N6-methyladenosine (m6A) is the most common and prevalent internal mRNA modification in eukaryotes. m6A modification is a dynamic and reversible process regulated by methyltransferases, demethylases, and m6A binding proteins. Skin cancers, including melanoma and nonmelanoma skin cancers (NMSCs), are among the most commonly diagnosed cancers worldwide. m6A methylation is involved in the regulation of RNA splicing, translation, degradation, stability, translocation, export, and folding. Aberrant m6A modification participates in the pathophysiological processes of skin cancers and is associated with tumor cell proliferation, invasion, migration, and metastasis during cancer progression. In this review, we provide a comprehensive summary of the biological functions of m6A and the most up-to-date evidence related to m6A RNA modification in skin cancer. We also emphasize the potential clinical applications in the diagnosis and treatment of skin cancers.

The presence of congenital melanocytic nevi (CMN) is determined in utero. The location, size, and number of CMN may be of cosmetic concern with significant psychosocial implications. They may also be associated with symptoms such as pruritus, eczema/xerosis, and skin fragilit; however, the most medically concerning issue is the association of CMN with the risk of developing cutaneous melanoma, extracutaneous melanoma, and neurocutaneous melanocytosis (NCM). Patients with CMN are currently risk-stratified based on the projected adult maximum diameter of the largest CMN and the number of CMN (satellites) present. In small and medium CMN the absolute risk of developing cutaneous melanoma is estimated to be approximately 0.3% with a relative risk of 9.5. While patients with large CMN are at increased risk for developing primary cutaneous melanoma within the CMN, they are also at increased risk for developing primary melanoma within the central nervous system (CNS) in association with CNS melanocytic deposits, an entity known as NCM. The absolute risk for developing melanoma in patients with large CMN is estimated to be between 1.25-10% with a relative risk between 52-1046. Regarding the risk for the presence of NCM, the risk correlates with the number of CMN, with the lowest risk in those with a single CMN and with risk escalation as the number of CMN increase. We have provided an overview of the existing evidence about the risk of melanoma and NCM in patients with CMN. The role of the clinical examination, dermatoscopy, MRI scanning of the CNS, and the role of surgery in the management of CMN of varying sizes is discussed.

Lower eyelid reconstruction using skin flaps sometimes results in undesirable deformities due to postoperative flap drooping. We aimed to examine the effectiveness of a novel procedure for reconstructing the skin-tarsoligamentous sling of the lower eyelid. We included 37 patients who underwent anterior lamellar reconstruction with a cheek rotation flap for full-thickness lower eyelid defect. They were divided into two groups: Group A included 19 patients who underwent tarsoligamentous sling reconstruction with a fascia lata strip and buccal mucosa grafting, and Group B comprised 18 patients who underwent skin-tarsoligamentous sling reconstruction using an additional combination of a periosteal flap and de-epithelialized triangular flap at the lateral canthal region, representing our novel approach. To evaluate the severity of postoperative deformities, we used the drooping index, the ratio of drooping compared to the healthy side, along with the angular difference in canthal tilt, obtained between the reconstructed and healthy sides, using photographs taken ≥6 months post-reconstruction. Group B demonstrated superior outcomes, with mean drooping indices of 1.13 compared to 1.33 in Group A (P = 0.031) and mean angular differences in canthal tilt of -0.73° compared to -2.45° in Group A (P = 0.021). Patient satisfaction was significantly higher in Group B than in Group A (P = 0.042). Furthermore, patients with drooping index <1.2 and an angular difference in canthal tilt ≥-1.0° exhibited higher satisfaction scores. Our novel approach to lower eyelid reconstruction using a skin-tarsoligamentous sling yielded improved aesthetic outcomes, fewer complications, and higher patient satisfaction.

Lower eyelid reconstruction using skin flaps sometimes results in undesirable deformities due to postoperative flap drooping. We aimed to examine the effectiveness of a novel procedure for reconstructing the skin-tarsoligamentous sling of the lower eyelid. We included 37 patients who underwent anterior lamellar reconstruction with a cheek rotation flap for full-thickness lower eyelid defect. They were divided into two groups: Group A included 19 patients who underwent tarsoligamentous sling reconstruction with a fascia lata strip and buccal mucosa grafting, and Group B comprised 18 patients who underwent skin-tarsoligamentous sling reconstruction using an additional combination of a periosteal flap and de-epithelialized triangular flap at the lateral canthal region, representing our novel approach. To evaluate the severity of postoperative deformities, we used the drooping index, the ratio of drooping compared to the healthy side, along with the angular difference in canthal tilt, obtained between the reconstructed and healthy sides, using photographs taken ≥6 months post-reconstruction. Group B demonstrated superior outcomes, with mean drooping indices of 1.13 compared to 1.33 in Group A (P = 0.031) and mean angular differences in canthal tilt of -0.73° compared to -2.45° in Group A (P = 0.021). Patient satisfaction was significantly higher in Group B than in Group A (P = 0.042). Furthermore, patients with drooping index <1.2 and an angular difference in canthal tilt ≥-1.0° exhibited higher satisfaction scores. Our novel approach to lower eyelid reconstruction using a skin-tarsoligamentous sling yielded improved aesthetic outcomes, fewer complications, and higher patient satisfaction.

Lower eyelid reconstruction using skin flaps sometimes results in undesirable deformities due to postoperative flap drooping. We aimed to examine the effectiveness of a novel procedure for reconstructing the skin-tarsoligamentous sling of the lower eyelid. We included 37 patients who underwent anterior lamellar reconstruction with a cheek rotation flap for full-thickness lower eyelid defect. They were divided into two groups: Group A included 19 patients who underwent tarsoligamentous sling reconstruction with a fascia lata strip and buccal mucosa grafting, and Group B comprised 18 patients who underwent skin-tarsoligamentous sling reconstruction using an additional combination of a periosteal flap and de-epithelialized triangular flap at the lateral canthal region, representing our novel approach. To evaluate the severity of postoperative deformities, we used the drooping index, the ratio of drooping compared to the healthy side, along with the angular difference in canthal tilt, obtained between the reconstructed and healthy sides, using photographs taken ≥6 months post-reconstruction. Group B demonstrated superior outcomes, with mean drooping indices of 1.13 compared to 1.33 in Group A (P = 0.031) and mean angular differences in canthal tilt of -0.73° compared to -2.45° in Group A (P = 0.021). Patient satisfaction was significantly higher in Group B than in Group A (P = 0.042). Furthermore, patients with drooping index <1.2 and an angular difference in canthal tilt ≥-1.0° exhibited higher satisfaction scores. Our novel approach to lower eyelid reconstruction using a skin-tarsoligamentous sling yielded improved aesthetic outcomes, fewer complications, and higher patient satisfaction.

Lower eyelid reconstruction using skin flaps sometimes results in undesirable deformities due to postoperative flap drooping. We aimed to examine the effectiveness of a novel procedure for reconstructing the skin-tarsoligamentous sling of the lower eyelid. We included 37 patients who underwent anterior lamellar reconstruction with a cheek rotation flap for full-thickness lower eyelid defect. They were divided into two groups: Group A included 19 patients who underwent tarsoligamentous sling reconstruction with a fascia lata strip and buccal mucosa grafting, and Group B comprised 18 patients who underwent skin-tarsoligamentous sling reconstruction using an additional combination of a periosteal flap and de-epithelialized triangular flap at the lateral canthal region, representing our novel approach. To evaluate the severity of postoperative deformities, we used the drooping index, the ratio of drooping compared to the healthy side, along with the angular difference in canthal tilt, obtained between the reconstructed and healthy sides, using photographs taken ≥6 months post-reconstruction. Group B demonstrated superior outcomes, with mean drooping indices of 1.13 compared to 1.33 in Group A (P = 0.031) and mean angular differences in canthal tilt of -0.73° compared to -2.45° in Group A (P = 0.021). Patient satisfaction was significantly higher in Group B than in Group A (P = 0.042). Furthermore, patients with drooping index <1.2 and an angular difference in canthal tilt ≥-1.0° exhibited higher satisfaction scores. Our novel approach to lower eyelid reconstruction using a skin-tarsoligamentous sling yielded improved aesthetic outcomes, fewer complications, and higher patient satisfaction.

